0 PREPARING FOR YOUR SUCCESS

PT1 

Welcome, everyone, and I am super excited to have you be a part of channel
Jumpstar. Are you excited? I'm excited. There's a lot of energy and excitement in
the air, And I hope it continues through these 12 weeks because these 12 weeks,
we're going to put a lot of hard work and energy and effort and really helping me
teach you my system, the system of channel jumpstart. Now, let me kind of explain
to you how we got to this point and the why. I think it's really important that
you understand my why. I have been on YouTube since 2005. I've worked with the
biggest brands. I've work with their budgets and we've done amazing projects. I've
worked with a lot of startups with no budgets and we're able to make a lot of
money and really raise a lot of money. We were able to do a lot of great things.
I've worked with even creators and we started out with nothing and we've been able
to really, really succeed on the platform. Want to give a shout out to Daryl Eves.
Daryl Eves. Daryl's one of the smartest people I've ever met in this space. I'd
probably spend like an hour every day trying to find other like -minded people. I've
literally never been able to find a second Daryl. I actually came up with my own
ideas and did YouTube channels, and I really have seen a lot of success. Now, why
am I doing channel jumpstart? That is the question there, because I want to explain
to you my why. I've been working with these people and these brands and these
creators and, you know, my employees and ultimately I love success.
I'm a success junkie. You're going to learn about that in a couple of videos. But
at the end of the day, I really want to make a difference in this world. Like I
personally want to bring a positive impact upon the world and I want to do it in
greater, greater ways. And if I continue to do it one project at a time, one brand
at a time, one channel at a time. Yeah, I'll have success and I'll do some great
things, but I won't really be able to impact the world the way that I want to
impact the world. And you'll see that I want success and I really analyze how can
I get to the level of where I want it to be. So I came down the conclusion. I
need to share my knowledge with people instead of doing it for them. And so the
whole thing that I want to teach you is I want to teach you how to fish instead
of providing fish for you. Like that's, that's all I want to do is I want to
teach you how to fish. And I decided, well, do I do it in like a little course
that someone can buy and then I can put it out to the masses? Yeah, I could
probably do that and I could make a ton of money doing that, but I don't think
that's the most effective way to really make changes. And so you, you personally
went through the process, You filled out an application and you got on the call.
Now, this wasn't a call to see if you could afford to be a part of Channel
Jumpstart. I'm going to let you in on a little secret here. It was literally to
see if we wanted to work with you because it's not about the money. Yeah, it costs
a lot because guess what? This is. This is life. It costs a lot of money. But the
reality is, is we wanted to see if we wanted to work with you. And we were
looking for a couple things not all of you that are actually in this group have
channels yet we wanted to know what your character is what you actually wanted to
do with your YouTube channel with your content and other people that have channels
I'm here to tell you we wanted to see what type of content you're creating where
you wanted to go I do not I absolutely do not want to share my information with
people that want to use it in the opposite way of what I want to have this world
to be. And so you were hand selected and in fact we actually turned down more
people to be a part of Channel Jump Start than we did accept. So it's not about
the money. If not, we would just take everybody in here. Now I am very, very
sensitive to the culture, the culture of Channel Jumpstar. I do not want to be
surrounded by toxic Ted's or negative Nellys. I don't. I want to be surrounded by
people that are excited about it and they're really positive and they're ready to
learn. And so are you ready to learn? Are you ready to do what it takes? Because
it's going to take a lot of hard work during these 12 weeks because we're together
for 12 weeks. And I want to kind of explain to you how it's going to break down.
Okay, so what's going to happen in the next 12 weeks? Well, it comes back down to
we're breaking this up into two parts part one is where each week I give you
between 45 minutes to an hour and a half of training I actually created training
videos and ultimately I want you to learn that that foundational element that's
needed for the channel jumpstart system at the end of it there are very specific
assignments and tasks that you need to do to stay caught And at the end of that,
I'm going to jump on live and me and my team are going to answer your questions
each week of what you actually have for that training that we actually went through.
And each week, you can see the schedule below this video and you can see exactly
what's happening and when. And then also, you're going to be notified by an email
on some other things that we want you to do along this journey. Now, we want you
in part one is to learn the foundation of channel jumpstart. Now, if you have more
than one YouTube channel, please, please listen to me. Okay, we've had people go
through this system and get overwhelmed because they were trying to apply all the
things that we're teaching across multiple YouTube channels, and you can't do it.
Like, I want you to focus all in on success of one channel, learn that foundational
element that you need to per week and get to the next week and do that upon that
one channel and at the end of part one you'll understand and have all the
understanding of what you need to do for the system of channel jumpstart and then
you go back through it over and over and over again that's what the channel
jumpstart way is and once you understand it it's a different philosophy and a
different system then you're good you can go back through it as many times as you
want now part two is where we shift and it's my my most excited shift because I
can honestly say I want to teach more advanced things. This is kind of the
foundation. Channel Jumpstart is a foundation. And the part two of these 12 weeks is
literally where we break down and I bring you on group coaching. And we can go
deep dive into all these different things to really help you see YouTube in a
different light and really leverage the system that you now are learning and knowing
and also applying. And we also have my team that's going to be helping you along
the way and they're going to interact with you. We have accountability coaches that
are going to help you stay accountable to those tasks. And then ultimately, we're
going to break it down and give you the things that you need to each week to
really succeed. Now, your first assignment, your first task is to be a part of this
community where we can help each other. And it's in a private Discord server. You'll
find the information down below and also we're sending you an email. You should
actually have it in your inbox now. And we want you to join that group. We want
you to be a part of that group. We want you to contribute to that group. Now,
what we don't want is toxic Ted's and negative Nellis. Like, I do not want to
surround myself by people that are ripping people apart. What we want to do is
learn together and analyze how we can improve together, and that will bring an
atmosphere of the culture, which is Channel Jumpstar.

PT2

Hey Jumpstarters, we're ready to start talking about your YouTube success. Really
excited about this video because when I was a young boy, I actually had who are my
grandfather, teach me an important lesson that led to me coming to the realization
that, oh my gosh, we can do so much more if we only focus in on the principles
that I'm gonna teach you here in this video. So I'm really excited about that. Now,
the first thing that I want you to know is that every YouTube channel is different.
That's right, there might be some similarities, but every channel's different, and
every YouTube creator is different. Now, the reason why I want you to put it
through that lens is because once you're able to switch and understand how to look
at things, you're going to feel better about yourself and you're actually going to
produce a lot better content because you're focusing in on the right things. Now, I
want to tell you a story. I'm a father of five and I'm a firm believer in
supporting them and whatever they want to do, whatever athletics or whatever their
interests are, I want to be able to put full support. And I have two of my oldest
boys were really interested in sports and athletics. On the old instant replay,
oh, every excruciated detail. And for me, I didn't want to be one of those critical
dads that found fault with everything that they did. And so I actually would only
say two things. Doesn't matter if they win or lose a game. and I asked, I'd ask
two questions and I have them internalize it. I'm like, what did you learn?
What would you do better? And the whole reason why I asked those questions is it
doesn't matter if they're win or lose. It's like, what do they learn? What can they
do better? And they're really analyzing themselves and trying to look through that
lens instead of saying, oh man, we lost, you know, because of so -and -so or
whatever, putting the blame where the blame's not. We're going to make mistakes. But
as we learn from those mistakes and what we can do better is how we can improve.
Now that was a lesson that was taught to me by my grandfather. I am now passing
it down for further generations with my children and hopefully they teach their
children. So the first thing is don't focus on anyone else. Focus in on yourself.
You need to focus in on you and really understand how you can improve. So you'll
notice that in Channel Jump Start we're going to actually cover how to analyze and
look at the data and know what to tweak and know what those signs are. We're going
to kind of explain that in further videos. But right here, right now, make the
commitment to only focus in on you. Now make a commitment not to skim through
content or even skip videos. And the reason why, because humans, we have the
tendency to have what we call the know -it -all mentality. Like, I already know this,
or I already learn this. Well, for me, it's really understanding the system.
No.
is like making a cake from scratch. You need the right ingredients with the right
ratios, and you need those ratios to be in the right order, and then you need to
bake it to perfection. Because when you skip a step or you don't understand a step,
guess what?
somebody teaching you something. The aha is somebody helping you to remember.
That's an aha moment for me. That's an aha. I didn't think about that. That's what
it is. Realistically, you know a lot of this information I'm gonna be teaching and
I don't want you to have that know at all personality, but what I wanna do is
presented in a way that you can have more aha moments. Because my goal, my purpose
is to help you learn what the system is and really define it in a way where you
have aha moments every week. Because when it actually clicks in your mind, you'll
actually know where to apply your time, your energy, your creativity to make better
content. And I can tell you that is the place where you need to succeed, is
creating better content that people want to consume and want to share. The next
thing is, as humans, we have the tendency to consume all the content at once. We're
really excited.
to never skip a video, to apply what you learn, and watch it over and over again,
because if you really wanna succeed, this is the information that will help you
succeed, and I'll be there to coach you. And truly, I can tell you right now, by
doing it for six weeks, you're going to make it a habit, and once you're able to
have it, you know that you're gonna have that moment and you'll know how to
identify that moment and how to capitalize on that moment so that you can have some
massive YouTube growth.

PT3

Hey jump starters now we're ready to talk about what the channel jumpstart course is
and what it is not now I can tell you what it's not it's kind of like having a
magic pill. I know there's a lot of you that would like to take a magic pill. You
take the blue pill. The story ends. You wake up in your bed and believe whatever
you want to believe. You take the red pill. You stay in Wonderland.
And I show you how deep the rabbit hole goes. And you're able to get a gold play
button. Look at this puppy. Another little play button to hang up. Now that right
there is not going to happen.
You're not going to have a magic pill that's going to help you get millions and
millions of millions of views and millions of subscribers. That's not what the course
is. And it's not a course that is a cheat sheet. And in fact, channel jumpstart
isn't even a course. And you're like, wait a minute, Darrell, what did I sign up
for? Well, let me kind of explain. A course is where someone actually curates and
puts information together and packages it in a way that you can consume it. And
that's what a course is. And then you actually apply that learning into your own
system. Now, the reason why you reached out to me and the reason why you went
through the application process and the reason why you paid so much is because you
have you want some knowledge to really succeed on the platform and what i'm going
to tell you it's going to be harsh but there is no course out there that's going
to give you that magic pill uh to really take you where you want to be however
let me kind of explain this and this is where i want you to shift your your
thought process now back in 2013 is where it all shifted and changed because YouTube
went from an algorithm -based system to an AI system that's controlling algorithms.
And the whole goal of what YouTube is, is to keep people on YouTube longer because
that's how they make money. And the best way to keep people on longer is really to
predict what people want to watch. And when that happened and when that occurred,
you know, I was helping out specific channels. And I would see patterns that were
going on. And I'm like, oh, this is interesting. What if we applied it to this
other channel this way? And we started to see these patterns of success. But we
also saw patterns of failure of what doesn't work. And I created this hypothesis of
what success could actually look like on YouTube. They created this hypothesis of
what you could actually do as a content creator to really succeed on YouTube. And
in 2013, I had a creator come up to me that just had an idea. And that idea was
for a specific YouTube channel. And so what we did was created that plan based off
of all this information that I had. And we executed on that plan. Now keep in
mind, this creator had zero videos, had had zero subscribers,
was not on YouTube before. However, they had a plan because I helped them with that
plan, and we literally started to execute on that plan. Well, what happened next was
I was able to see more data. We were able to see what works, what didn't work. We
were able to validate some things, and we were able to change some hypothesis
because we had more data because data doesn't lie and we want to make data driven
decisions and I took it even a step further of really trying to define uh you know
the the things of these assumptions that I have and there's a lot of things that
didn't work and I says okay was it just because of this video or this video or
was there a certain thing and I started to group those things together and as we
put forth the plan we started executing on that plan we had the data we really
started to analyze and went in depth of all the little things of what worked and
what didn't and then we would adjust that plan and we would just go through that
process that process you're going to get to know it because it is literally on the
back of everything that we do here in channel jump start because that is the jump
starter way the gem starter way is to plan execute analyze and adjust and what
we're going to do is adjust so much that we can always see growth because we're
able to identify and understand of what we feel like is right and translate that
over to actually taking action to improve our content. That's kind of the way. Now,
once I was able to do that for one channel, I says, huh, I wonder if this works
for another channel? And it did. And we had more data and we learned a different
way of doing things. And I says, what if it does it for a third channel and a
fourth channel and a fifth channel and before you know it it didn't matter if they
had a brand new YouTube channel or if they had content it was still the same
process the only difference is is the point in the journey so if you're starting
out brand new right now this process will work for you okay and in fact in some
ways you have an advantage over the people that have been putting out a lot of
content okay now if you have a lot of content this actually works for you because
this system is built off of data and you already have data and it's going to
really help you. However, you're going to have an advantage over someone that's
actually starting a new YouTube channel. There's just different types of advantages.
We'll talk about that here in a second. The difference is, is the person that
actually has a lot more content sometimes aren't willing to actually implement some
of the things that we're going to actually be teaching in this system and that will
keep you behind. So like it's almost balancing it out. There's just just two
different ways to do this. And so in 2013, when we were able to replicate it about
five or six times, I really put everything in a system. And this system is what
I'm teaching you. And in fact, today, to date of recording this video, we've created
a plan with a YouTube channel that had zero subscribers we zero views and help them
get over a million subscribers each and billions and billions and billions of video
views and i can tell you this right here can be replicated with a brand new
youtube or a YouTuber that has a lot of content i'm telling you it works and so
what is the channel jump start what is channel Channel Jumpstar. Well, it is a way
of doing business. It really is. It's a way of life. And I can tell you that all,
if you think in a course perspective, this isn't a magic pill because it's going to
take a lot of hard work and dedication and perseverance. It's also going to take a
mindset shift and surrounding yourself by like -minded people.
And once you're able to understand this and you're able to consume it in this way,
you're going to actually see a lot more success. Now, here is the biggest word of
warning. And I want everyone literally stop what you're doing and listen to exactly
what I'm going to say and fill my words. Focus! If you try to do this on four or
five or six channels, you will fail. And the reason why I say this is because what
I'm teaching you is shifting your thought of what YouTube is to show you how I see
YouTube and show you my system. We've had YouTubers that have been a part of this
group. And I won't call them jump starters because what happens is they're trying to
put it on 10 or 12 different channels and they get frustrated because they don't
see success and then they jump off okay but jump starters are very focused so we're
focused in on one channel and that's all we're gonna do and we're gonna break it
down of how we define what content is and I want you to only to focus in on one
thing and the reason why is because once you're able to learn it, seeing it this
one way, you can actually replicate it because it's a system. You can put it on
any channel and do it. Plus, there's a lot of little details that you have to do.
There's a lot of things that you have to absorb, and then you have to analyze
that, and then you have to actually create a plan, and I tell you what to do,
pretty much each week, and then you execute on that. And I know that there's some
people, there's so much into doing the tasks because they had to do it on five
different channels and one, it really took away for how productive they were on that
one specific task. It kind of devalued what they're doing because they're trying to
do it across the board. Do not do that. If you do that, you will not only waste
time, but you'll waste a lot of energy that can be harnessed to really help you
succeed with the specific task because I can tell you, this system has well thought
out. been using it for years with all my YouTube channels, personally, with my
clients, with all the success that you see. I've been using this system, and this
is what I'm teaching you. You're spending a lot of time, energy, and money to come
learn my system. And I want you to learn it in a way that you can succeed,
because I've seen it. I've seen students come in and become jump starters, and then
they have that jump starter mentality and they succeed success. And that's the goal
for me. I want you to succeed and the best way to do that is literally follow
every instruction that I give you. Like do not skip a video, put the hard work,
energy, and effort and time and realize that this is more than a course. Like this
isn't remotely a course. This is a system for really to help you succeed and I'm
here to tell you that that's what channel jumpstart is a world where anything is
possible where
we go from there is a choice i leave to you


PT4

and execute analyze and adjust that is the jump starter way that's what you actually
signed up for and i'm here to tell you that will lead you to more success in life
than any other thing because it's the process to succeed. Now, even though that this
is channel jumpstart and we're going to focus in on YouTube, you can literally apply
these principles that I'm teaching you in every aspect of your life. And if you
look at everything that I've done in business, everything that I've done personally,
spiritually, you know, with my family, whatever, it's because of these principles that
I'm teaching you. Now, I personally only want to teach you how to fish. I don't
want to provide fish for you, and for you to learn how to fish, you need to
understand the process that I go through to really make great decisions,
which is data -driven decisions. Now, I want to give you a perfect example of this,
okay? When we decided, hey, we wanted to impact the world and really start sharing
what we know with the world, I put together a plan. And I used my team and we
kind of developed that plan and we actually created Channel Jumpstart. Now for
Channel Jump Start to succeed, we needed people into it and see how they respond to
it because ultimately we're really good one on one with our clients. We're really
good with our own stuff. But how do we do it in a little bit more masses like
one on many? And so we invited a few people that actually came to VidSummit and
they signed up and a lot of these people were creators that had multiple channels.
Some of them were creators that had millions and millions and millions of subscribers
and some of them had no subscribers, no channels, no video. And so we had a vast
variety of different people that we wanted into the program so we can kind of see
who does this actually resonate the most with. And we were actually surprised that
of all the different questions and we thought out a lot of the different questions
that we knew.
executing was key for us. But this is where the rubber meets the roll. And you'll
always see this on everything that we're giving you is this right here, the analysis
portion of it. I go in depth on this. I always ask why. Why is this happening?
Why are we doing this? And I basically look for patterns. This is the jump starter
way guys. Okay. And then it's really being open to adjust and then make a better
you know plan and execute on a better plan and then uh literally analyze okay what
works what doesn't work and then adjust that so that is the jump starter way and
we were going through channel jump start we had that first group that went through
and i was shocked i was shocked to see the success i was just blown away at some
people that just blew up and other people that were just hitting their head against
the wall and they just couldn't succeed. And I question, is it them or is it
something that I'm teaching? So I started to look at all the different issues that
people was facing when they weren't succeeding. And I was looking at all the things,
the commonalities on the people that do succeed. And I was able to see quite a
bit, actually. And we knew that we needed to do another test group. So we did
another test group. We had another beta group go in and boom we fixed a lot of
the little little issues that that people had to succeed we actually had a higher
success rate it was like so much higher and like okay that's so amazing but we
still had a group that was just like banging their head against the wall and I'm
like hey what what's going on some of these people had multiple YouTube channels
some of them had no YouTube channels that wasn't the common factor you know some of
them been on YouTube for a very long times others didn't there were some common
factors that we were able to find a pattern and really modify a few.
and all these different things happen on their lives, their businesses. People went
from, you know, just barely scraping by that they are set for life, you know, and
it was great. But we still had a small subset of people. And I honestly started to
see the ultimate pattern, and we knew we needed to change it. So me and my team,
we set back and we really started to analyze, how could we improve this. And we
started looking at the different things. And keep in mind, we did our fourth group
that went through and even a fifth group. And it just became more and more
apparent. And so this is what's going to happen. And this is really important for
you. You need great communication. So we actually developed an accountability group.
You don't need to find. You don't need to go out and look for. You just are a
part of that group. And that group has a group leader, a coach. And this coach
actually knows what they're doing. They've gone through Channel Jump Start. They're
volunteering their time to help you really succeed on the system that I'm teaching
you. Then we're also going to have coaches. These are certified coaches in Channel
Jumpstar. And these certified coaches are people that completely understand and I feel
confident can teach you about Channel Jumpstart, and these coaches are going to be
checking in on these accountability groups and with the group coaches. And then we
also have Discord. The Discord server is an amazing place for encouragement and
really understanding a little bit more in depth on tasks. It's great to have that
feedback with the whole community because you have people that have gone through
Channel Jump Start even a year ago, and they can actually help you in that we are
uplifting each other as a community and and then ultimately there's one other level
so halfway through the program you're going to have a personal contact with a coach
and that coach is going to reach out to you and see where you're at personally
because that personal connection of seeing what you're struggling with will give us
better data that we need to really improve the program but more importantly it's
going to give you personal and time, well, with me and my team. And as that's
done, and at the very, very end of the first part of Channel Jumpstart, I'm going
to jump on and we're going to actually digest everything in a big Q &A and really
try to fill in the blanks, okay? And then we shift to part two.
Part two is really intense. It's really fun. I love it. It's what I want because
now that we understand what the channel jump start way is we understand the channel
jumpstart system then we actually start doing it and we doing it more than just one
video and one bucket we'll talk about that in future weeks now we found in this
process there's a lot of people out there that just focus in on what they're doing
wrong I want you to focus in on what you're doing right and and surround yourself
by people that can help you analyze what you're doing wrong and making those small
tweaks to get the big peaks. Because that right there is what I am the most
passionate about, especially with channel jumpstart. So I'm excited for you to learn
this system and become a jump starter and be able to say,
I always plan, execute, analyze, and adjust. Because when you do that in life,
you're going to really succeed and with success brings happiness at a level that you
can never imagine. And that's what I'm teaching you. And it's much more than just
channel jumpstart here. It's a way of life.

PT5

Hey there, all you jump starters out there, super excited about this video here
because we're going to do a run through of the tool site so you understand what to
expect while going through Channel Jumpstart and how to navigate the training videos
and also the tools that we have. So please pay attention to this as we go through,
it's going to be a lot of fun. So the first thing is when you come to the tool
site, you're going to notice the login information. Now it says username or email.
Most likely, the best part to do, the best thing to do is just use the email that
you used to sign up for Channel Jumpstar. If you're wondering what email that is,
it's the same email that you're getting all of our emails from. So that is your
name, you just want to plug that in. I'm going to go ahead. I've got mine saved
on here. And your password, if you don't remember your password or when it was
created, go ahead and just do a forgot password. You'll get an email and you can
reset that. If you have any issues with logging in or anything with the tool site,
feel free to reach out to myself, an accountability coach or anyone from our team
on Discord and we'll be able to help you out, okay? So go ahead and log in and
ta -da, you come to this beautiful site. The first thing that you get is access to
the training videos for channel jumpstart. So each week we're going to be unlocking
a new section. So as you go through this, you can see that when you first come
into channel jumpstart, you have preparing for your success. After the group
commission call, we have section one. And then after that, each week after we finish
our group coaching calls, we'll unlock the following section. So you can see here we
have up to eight sections of training. We have an ultimate jump start of what comes
next with some videos there as well. And then depending on if you're in the creator
group or the entrepreneur group, you have your weekly group coaching calls. Now,
these weekly group coaching calls, you can go in and actually watch the previous
groups section call as well. I highly, highly, highly, highly can't say enough.
Recommend watching the previous group's calls. So after you finish like section one
or section two, you can come in here and you can see right there, section one
group coaching call, section two, three, all the way through eight. And you can
watch and see what were the questions that people were asking Daryl in the previous
group and what were Daryl's answers? So many golden nuggets. Because if you go and
watch the training for the sections, then you might have some questions. You can
immediately get your answer right then and there. Or it will help open your mind to
a question that you never even thought about. And you can go that much deeper. I
can guarantee you, like the people that watch these group coaching calls, the depth
of their questions and the depth of the answers that Darrell can go into are so
much greater. So the more that you focus in on this area and apply this during
your time going through channel jumpstart, the better. So yep, that's where you can
find them. It always has the previous group's coaching call. And then once your
group goes through, we'll just replace it with the latest and greatest information.
So that is channel jumpstart, kind of the breakdown there. So as you come in, like
for instance, right here, section one, you'll see here why most creators fail and
you can just click through each one of these videos and you can either go like
Marcus Complete, click Next Training, and it'll go that way as well. So that is
channel jumpter. It's sections one through eight. So for the first eight weeks, it
has the group coaching calls as well. Now, the last four weeks, for those going
through channel jumpstart for the first time, the last four weeks, you get a taste
of ultimate jumpstart group coaching. There are multiple tiers. We currently have
three tiers at this moment of ultimate jumpstart group coaching. Then there's mastery.
And then there's inner circle. Inner Circle is an invite only with Daryl, but those
are the three tiers of a continuity program that you get to be a part of once you
go through channel Jump Start. Now, you can click right here on group coaching
training and you will have access to those during that time period.
So you can go through all this. I'm talking years and years of group coaching
calls. And this is where Daryl or myself are breaking down channels or answering or
answering.
Or at VidSummit, they get a VIP ticket to VidSummit and then a day after a
training as well, in -person training. So it's really great that way. Inner Circle,
like I said, invite only. And that is where you come to Darrell's home with a
small group and mastermind together. So that's where those trainings are located right
there under the training section. Now, as you progress through channel jumpstart,
there are tools involved. So like for instance, when you get to section two, you're
going to come into the tool section and you're going to be doing this research and
recon. This is where you're going to be analyzing YouTube from a content creator
perspective and also the viewer perspective to see patterns that are working on
YouTube. Okay, so this will come in section two. There'll be a video in section two
on how to use these tools. Please, please, please watch that video so that you can
excel at that. One thing that I want to point out here so that you can hear
multiple times, the importance of your API key is right here you can go to your
name and go to profile. And under profile, when you scroll down,
you have settings. And right here is your YouTube API key. You're going to want to
enter your API key here so that you can actually apply and or grab data from
YouTube and have it work in the tools section. So that's where the research and
recon will come available for you. You'll be learning how to do that with channels,
your videos and video ideas. We have in section 3 click worthy. I think this is
really cool because clickworthy, you have all these wonderful things where you can do
heat maps and really see where do the eyes go when you're creating thumbnails
because it's really important that you get people to look at where you need them to
create that curiosity so that you earn the click. And then in section seven, you're
going to get access to the CTR tracker. This is understanding your baselines per
traffic source to know when you're releasing videos, are your videos getting more
impressions? Is YouTube pushing and promoting your videos more over time?
Are you increasing that baseline in the traffic sources that matter? Also is your
CTR increasing per traffic source in the, in the,
those section or those traffic Does that matter? So you're going to learn all about
that. That's in section seven. And then right here we have resources. Under the
resources, there's the user checklist where you can go through and see what are some
of the things that are going on in Channel Jumpstart per week. If you're like,
okay, what's happening in each week? What are some of the things I should be
looking at? There's also where you have the actual physical book that's mailed to
you. You have a downloadable PDF copy or if you want to do it here and just enter
in all the information on the tool site you have for the action plan, the goals,
the avatar, the pattern analysis, and the video analysis as well. So that's where
those are located. So this is just another level of helping you out on how you
like to track your notes. Either it's a physical copy book that's mailed to you or
if you like the PDF format or if you want to keep it all here on the tool site.
So there you go. That is a breakdown of the tool site. Like I said,
if you have any questions, please reach out to us on Discord, either myself or my
team or your accountability coach. And we are here to support you as you go through
this amazing journey and really dive in and become part of the channel Jumpstart
community. So thanks for watching.



