1 Your YouTube Success 

PT1 
Hey, jump starters, now we are going to talk about a topic that is near and dear
to my heart, and it's very sensitive, which is why most creators on YouTube actually
fell. Now, this is something that I really look at and analyze quite a bit.
I do have access to a lot of creators and I'm able to see patterns. And in this
video, we're going to talk about those patterns. And what I would like you to do
as your mentor and coach is I want you to really take a step back and analyze and
say, hey, am I really doing this? And really analyze how you can improve.
Now, I can tell you that for me, I am one of the most competitive people that
you'll ever meet. Like, I do it for the win. I want to win every single time and
I hate to fail. But as I understand failure and as I understand how to course
correct, I'm going to teach you here in Ultimate Jumpstart how to, when you fail,
how to analyze so you can actually improve. So that leads us to this video of why
content creators fell on the platform and what they need to do to improve.
Now the first one and this is the biggest is a lot of content creators know that
they need a good title. They know they need a good thumbnail. They know they need
a good hook. They know they need to really focus in on the average reiteration and
retention, but they literally don't apply what they already know. They just kind of
just do it and throw it out there and make sure that, hey, they're moving on to
the next video and that it's magically going to fix itself or it's magically going
to attract an audience. Well, that's not going to happen, guys. Like, you might have
some dumb luck on a video or two, but the reality is if you want to really
achieve the goals that you want to achieve, you really need to take a step back
and produce high quality content. That's what the ultimate jump start is, is helping
you be able to not only produce, but analyze how to make it even better. Next,
this is another big one, and people are not being honest, and they're not being
honest with themselves. And my question to you is, does your video content actually
suck? Does it? You know, are you really happy with it? Now, there are a lot of
people that says, oh, I got great average view duration. I'm getting like, you know,
50 % or 60 % or 70 % of the people that start the video that finish the video, but
they only had three views. And they're all from their mom. Oh boy, here we go out
again. No YouTube like this guy.
His favorite shirt.
Yes. This is my favorite part.
Oh, brother, Darrell.
Subscribe now. I got to watch that again. And that's my mom watching my videos, and
she's super supportive in anything that I do. But the reality is, can it appeal to
a broader demographic? And what are those numbers? So, like, these numbers can be
inflated and it can give us self -confidence that we're doing really good when we're
actually not. So part of this course is to teach you how to identify those things
and what you should actually look at. And also, since we're talking about my mom,
my mom here, probably not ever going to see this video. It's like really surrounding
yourself by the right people. Now, we discussed this in an earlier video about
masterminds and groups and so on. But there are Facebook groups out there that they
will be your biggest cheerleader. And sometimes that's the biggest demise. And a lot
of content creators can't produce better content because they're not getting good
information and good feedback. And so it can literally keep channels from actually
progressing because they're like, hey, I love it or I love this part. They didn't
even probably watch the whole thing. They probably didn't even really engage with it
in the way that the other viewer would. You know, they're doing it because you
might have posted in a forum or in a group, but they didn't actually have you in
mind or understand the audience in mind. And just give you some context. There are
these people out there that are very quick to tell you what you're doing right and
what you're doing wrong, but they have no clue what they're talking about. Next,
it's all about YouTubers spending time in the proper place. And I found that a lot
of content creators really focus in on their time what they do day to day in on
the wrong things. It's like they're stuck in a hamster wheel and they're not going
anywhere. They're literally wasting a lot of energy and focus and time and they're
just running in that hamster wheel. Now let me give you some very specific things
that a lot of creators do. That is a huge mistake. One is commenting on every
content creators videos and taking time and trying to get notice in comments and
really contributing. Now, I'm not opposed to being involved in a community and
responding to community, but this sub for sub for this or, hey, I have more value
over here and you're leaving those types of comments. Not only is breaking terms of
service of YouTube, but number two, you'll be viewed as spam, which will inhibit
YouTube from actually getting your videos out there. But the third thing is it's a
lot of time trying to tell people that your content's good, when your content
probably isn't really good, and then you need to take a step back and actually
analyze your content and have a better strategy of making better content. Now, I was
actually in a lunch meeting with one of my clients and now partners, Mr. Beast, and
I can tell you that it's annoying for these content creators to get someone trying
to grab their attention, and trying to get them to see them on Twitter or on
YouTube.
out lead to success but they really had great content and the bulk of the people
that are probably watching this content and also the bulk of the people that aren't
seeing the visibility can improve their content I can improve my content and I do
that every single time it's something that you can do as well now the next one is
that these content creators aren't becoming a student of YouTube I truly believe that
if you want to succeed, you have to become a student of YouTube. You have to be
able to understand what's going on, understand what your content really is,
understand who your audience really is, all the little logistics with that foundation
that will help you grow. But ultimately, you need to know what's happening in your
space, and that's something that you can learn and grow. Now, I truly believe that
you need to be a self -starter in this, and if you only wait until someone
actually,
kind of throw anyone under the bus, but there's a lot of bad information out there
of people just regurgitating information that they learned and they don't really check
the source and they don't really have the case studies of growth and they don't
understand what it takes to grow an audience. And so it's like learning how to
become a student. It's like looking and choosing who you're actually going to learn
from. And I really appreciate you guys actually purchasing this course and learning
from me and being part of this program of me helping you become successful. But
it's really analyzing for yourself of what your channel can be and where you can
create your content and the tools to understand. So the first way of being a good
student is understanding the tools that you have at your resource. The second thing
is what's actually happening in your niche that's happening. You want to keep a
really good pulse on that and ultimately find someone that can help you and
enlighten you in a way that it just makes sense. Like, everything is building upon
it. The biggest one that I see of how they need to become a student of YouTube,
and you're going to see this in a future section, a training video here in this
course, is that you need to analyze what's actually going on in the space from
other content creators. There are patterns. There are things that are going on. And
instead of watching to be entertained, you're watching through the lens of analysis.
And you're saying, what do these, all these channels have in common? And why are
they successful? What are they doing here that are similar to everybody else? What,
you know, what's the pacing, understanding how the edits done, how they're engaging
with the community? All these things are really important. It's going to help you
become a better student of YouTube. That's why I actually started the channel
jumpstart, is to help you with this. Now the next one is the comparison trap.
We talked about a little bit earlier about comparing yourself to other YouTubers, but
the reality is you should only focus in on yourself. You should only worry about
how well you're doing and not look at Mr. Johnny YouTuber down the road. Because
Johnny YouTuber down the road has different talents and abilities, and he might be
doing some things that you like and you can kind of pull them in and analyze it
in a way that can help you become more successful by applying it and personalizing
it, but most people are so consumed to what somebody else is doing that they're not
really looking back at how that they can improve. Most creators will also fail
because they're not knowing how to course correct. They don't learn from their
channel. They just have some good luck that's going on. They're putting out some
great content. And usually what happens, and I see this cycle happen with creators
failing, is they'll get a kind of a boost of success and then they plateau and
then they start to dip off. And the reason why I have found that that to be the
case of a lot of content creators is because they're not really analyzing and
learning from their own content and really understanding how to improve it and also
looking at other verticals, which we call video buckets that we have a training on
this coming up really soon, and really analyzing how content does resonate with the
traffic sources now traffic sources and content go hand in hand and once you
understand that that's the success of growth and once you understand who's engaging
with what and what they're actually doing that is a big thing and I also found
that these content creators that actually have things happen they don't know how to
analyze their data they don't know how to adjust their data they don't know how to
you know, replicate their data because it's just a one -off or whatever instead of
really looking through the lens of analysis. And so I want all of you that get
overwhelmed with data analysis not to worry about it. I actually have a system here
in the Channel Jumpstart that's going to help you really overcome those fears and
challenges. And I'm going to put it in a very simplistic way to give you what to
look at, when to look at, and how to course, correct. Now, this next one is one
that I am guilty of, which is analysis paralysis. Now, I can get sucked into the
data and I'm so sucked into the data that I don't necessarily do anything. Now,
that's a very bad thing. I'm very conscientious about that. And I can tell you it's
something that I look at how to improve each time is not to overanalyze something.
That's why I'm really excited to share with you my system behind this. The second
thing is really analyzing things and so afraid.
own current audience and new potential viewers. Another mistake that creators make is
the lack of consistency. Now, I've fallen into that trap on my personal YouTube
channel. And the reason why is I have so much going on. I'm doing so many other
things. I have other channels that you're able to see here that we do so much work
for. And ultimately, it's just kind of designating the time. And as content creators,
if you really want to succeed, you have to be consistent. But it's not consistently
uploading at the right time, at the right place. It's like having consistent content
that will resonate with your audience and will engage them, but doing it frequent
enough that they're able to actually consume your content and send those metrics back
to help you actually grow. Because once YouTube understands what your video is about
and who's watching it and you're consistently putting that out, you're consistently
bringing people on the platform, You're consistently bringing them to subscribe and
engage with your content. The longer they stay on the platform, that's where YouTube
triggers that YouTube recommendation, which we truly want for all our channels.
Because once we're able to have YouTube recommend people for our content, that's when
you actually have massive YouTube growth. Now, I do need to laugh at this one
because I've seen a lot of people that says, hey, check out my channel. See what
I'm doing right. See what I'm doing wrong. And they literally have no content
strategy. They'll release a video on this and a video on that and a video on this.
And ultimately, they might get some views here, but they might not even do anything
to follow up on those views. They might get too niche down that they're not
exploring other options. And that is a huge mistake. Because content is king.
And once you can create that content that will really pull people in, then
distribution is queen. And that's where YouTube will start recommending that really
good content out there. And I can tell you that content is title, thumbnail hook,
description, your video content itself, you know, how long people stay on. Just don't
think it through the lens of just your videos, because if they never click on it,
they're never going to see it. Well, this next one is very, very funny
superstitions. Now, I've been on YouTube since 2005. I've been able to see the
evolution of the platform, how creators use it, and I've heard everything under the
sun. It's like, I can't release my video until this time I click my hills three
times, and I can actually understand it in a way that YouTube will,
the YouTube gods will just kind of part the ways open and I'll get a ton of
views. And I'm telling you, a lot of these superstitions have some merit in the
sense of that they're created, but YouTube's always looking to improve. And a lot of
these superstitions, you hear from these bigger YouTubers, well, don't do this, don't
do that, do this. And, you know, all this is passed down year over year, year,
year over year, and these content creators are still doing it now. And that's a lot
of energy that's wasted or even time that isn't necessarily being designated. Let me
give you one for example. For the longest time, if you actually uploaded a video
that you couldn't schedule it, you know, it's just like that. Like there was a
known bug that lasted for about a month and a half that YouTube actually addressed,
but people weren't scheduling it. They were just waiting it at the time that needed
to release it and released it. And so here they were, you know, waking up early in
the morning or whatever it is to release a video when they can actually have done
that automated. So like keep that in mind, yeah, maybe it came from some
awkwardness, but the most important thing that you need to do is test it. Test it,
see how it works on your channel, but you got to do it long enough that you can
understand that does it affect or does it not affect? Is it correlation or
causation? That's something that you need to keep in mind. There are so many other
things that really keep creators from that there's a huge list that we could
actually go through but I don't want to focus in on mistakes what I want you to
do is shift your mindset shift the way that you're thinking and really looking at
things that you're going to do now moving forward in the channel jump start I want
you to focus in on the things you will do things that you'll do every day and
really be particular on following this system that we set up in channel jumpstart

PT2

millions of views, but there's no pattern to it. And you're probably like, why does
this randomness happen on YouTube? This course is not to explain the randomness that
happens because it happens, it exists, I acknowledge it. But what this course is
about is really helping you understand a strategy and helping you develop the stages
to succeed. And in this video, we're actually going to cover the stages of success.
This channel jumpstart is a system. It's a system that I've been using not not only
to get my gold play buttons, but we've helped a lot of content creators get a lot
of visibility, a lot of views, a lot of engagement, and it's something that I've
been really excited to share with you. And ultimately, I make a lot of money with
brands teaching these same strategies that I'm going to share with you right here
today. Now, what I want you to do is really think of the things that you need to
do to succeed. Now, what comes to my mind, since I'm a Star Wars nerd, I really
am.
Ultimately, I refer a lot of the best movie of all time. Stop trooper plays a
brain. Ultimately, I refer a lot back to the Empire Strikes Back, because that's the
best movie of all time. I don't care what you think, but for me, it is the number
one best movie of all time, Empire Strikes Back. Now, in that, Yoda was actually
teaching Luke. Yoda was someone mentoring Luke to help him become a Jedi and really
understand and harness his power that he's able to wield. And he made this
statement. No, no different. Only different in your mind. You must unlearn what you
have learned. It's true. I think as we upload content and we have our own system,
if you're not really looking to improve and you just keep on putting it up, it's
kind of monotony and it's also sanity when you just do the same thing every time.
And sometimes we need to take step back and really unlearn the things that we have
learned and make sure that we put it in context. So that's why I create a channel
jumpstart is to help content creators really succeed by taking a step back, analyzing
and adjusting and improving their own content strategy. Now let's go ahead and talk
about the stages of success. And this is really important. I like to illustrate it
from a point of what actually happened in history, and it's something that we can
all learn about and really apply as content creators on YouTube. I hear the EVA is
progressing beautifully. They're setting up the flag now. I guess you're about the
only person around that doesn't have TV coverage of the scenes. That's all right. I
don't mind a bit. They've got the flag up now and you can see the stars and
stripes on the limit. Are you getting a TV picture now, Houston? Neil,
yes, we are getting a TV picture. You're in our field of you now.
I'd have to like to evaluate the various phases that a person can traveling on the
left purpose. You do have to be... All right, you do have to be... Now you notice
that before this video and all we got branding everywhere, you see a rocket ship
for for Channel Jumpstart. And I truly believe we're going to use that as a
metaphor, and we're going to talk about ways that you can achieve a greater success.
Now, for me, I think of one of the most monumental speeches of all time is when
JFK actually said this. Because that goal will serve to organize and measure the
best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we're willing to
accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one we intend to win,
and the others too.
We shall send to the moon 240 ,000 miles away from the control station in Houston,
a giant rocket, more than 300 feet tall the length of this football field,
made...
communications, food, and survival on an untried mission to an unknown celestial body
and then return it safely to Earth, reentering the atmosphere at speeds of over 25
,000 miles per hour, causing heat about half that on the temperature of the sun,
almost as hot as it is here today, and do all this, and do all this and do it
right and do it first before this decade is out then we must be bold and jfk made
that statement and it got out and motivated people that were coming in line now
keep in mind there was a lot of competition there was a space race that was going
on with russia and it was like who's going to be there first he basically vowed
this we choose to go to the moon We choose to go to the moon in this decade and
do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard. Now,
with this, they had five goals and they had different stages to succeed. Now, just
because they had the goal and the time of when they're actually going to make it
to get to the moon, there's different things that need to happen. Just because you
have vision and you have mission and you have purpose doesn't mean it's going to be
successful. What you need to do is take a step back and really have a strategic
plan to get there. Now, getting to the move, there are five things that they need
to do, five things that they needed to accomplish. The first one was global
communications. There was no global satellite systems. There was no global GPS or
anything like that. They had to actually figure that out. Before they could get to
the moon, they need to really understand what was actually happening and how to
communicate around the world. And so that was a stage that they needed to complete
to be able to take them one step closer to getting them to the moon. Next was
really understanding weather patterns and really observing the things. So they needed
to have satellites that could really observe and bring back data of what's actually
happening. What's the pulse going on? And is there specific trends in weather
patterns or whatever is actually happening. So that's something that they actually had
to look at, and it took them one step closer to getting to the moon. Next, they
actually need to descend satellites to the moon, so they need to get to the moon,
deploy satellites, and really start to analyze the moon itself, really understanding
the topography of the moon, where it is, if there's any patterns, any weirdness that
was actually happening. They had to bring a lot of data back and communicate with
those global satellites again that can come down to NASA and actually Houston. Once
that was able to go through that process, they're one step closer to getting to the
moon. Ultimately, they needed to really define their spacecrafts. They had different
variations of that, but they also needed to understand that they needed rocket
boosters that could get them to the moon. And there's different stages of that
problem. They had issue after issue after issue. issue.
And what they would do is analyze what was going on, why didn't the rocket take
off, what could they actually do, how could they improve the yield of the boosters
itself? The first stage carries 1 ,060 tons of fuel,
and its 29 motors will lift the entire weight of the ship vertically off the
ground. The second stage has 8 motors and carries 155 tons of fuel.
It will be dropped when its speed has reached 14 ,300 miles per hour. The next is
our third stage. And this was a very difficult thing, but understanding the
propulsion rate and the type of fuel needed and what the
liken this to trends that actually happen in the world, on the internet, on YouTube,
and it's really understanding trending behavior, and what you're able to capitalize on
that and knowing how to communicate with an audience, that even gets you a little
bit closer at getting to your goals. Next, surveying the moon. Now, I like to
really look at of really how to analyze and tactically look at competitors in the
space and also different channels that would be like -minded in the niche that
necessarily wouldn't be a competitor, but it's something that we can pull data from
and really analyze to know what's actually going on. That's kind of like surveying
the moon. That's like really seeing all the different things that are going on, why
they were able to get there and so on. Now, the next one is the main reason why
we're using a rocket with boosters as our logo for Channel Jumpstart because that is
the key. I you these booster rockets and the rocket ship itself as your channel and
as your content. Now, your channel is the rocket itself and the boosters and the
fuel are the videos that you actually produce. And as they get momentum,
it leads your channel to go to the goal, which is the moon, and gets you closer
and closer to achieving your goal. Now, One of the challenges that they did is to
how to overcome landing on the moon and then, you know, leaving the moon. And
that's where I like to look at through the lens of YouTube is how do you actually
make a business out of this? You know, how do you actually make a business and
make money on AdSense with merchandising off of YouTube, brand deals, integrated brand
deals, so on and so forth. And it's really understanding that components. And
Ultimately, all those things are stages to succeed. We liken it back to something
that happened in history, and it can happen for you here in Channel Jumpstart. And
it's really important if you want to succeed that you cannot skip over a stage to
succeed. These stages of success will lead to your success. It has a higher
probability than any other thing to do that. Why? Because it's happened time and
time Again, I've actually put it together in a system for you. So you want to
focus in on the stages of success. And this training will actually help you
understand your content, understand that your time and your focus, where you should
put your time, where you should put your focus, and really push aside all the
things that really doesn't matter. Next, you need to set goals for you to be
successful. You have to be like JFK. You have to make a statement. You need to
know when you're going to do that. You need to be goal centered. And that gold
centeredness is something that we actually start with in the next training all about
the channel jumpstart of helping you understand what you truly want, creating a
finish line and reverse engineering how to get to that finish line. Because that's
what JFK is, is we're going to get to the moon. We're going to do it in this
decade and literally had to reverse engineer. How do we actually do that? Because
they had the vision, the mission, the purpose, the goal and when they wanted to
complete that by and that's actually in the training for this next video now lastly
it's all about your commitment and your commitment to succeed i mean you need to be
all in guys all right i'll give it a try no why not do or do not there is no
try like you literally need to go all in say i'm all in i'm going to do whatever
it takes to get me to where I need to be. And the second thing is you've got to
be patient. You can't just expect that once you're able to do this course, it's
gonna magically appear and you're gonna have all these views, all these subscribers.
No, it's a system to create better content. It's a system to teach you how to
analyze your own content and adjust that content so you can have small tweaks that
will give you the big peaks, and that's where you're able to get the views and
ultimately get more audience and grow that that audience that really loves and
engages with your content. There's no magic wand. We talked about that before.
There's no magic pill. We talked about that before. Ultimately, it's your commitment
to succeed. And it all starts with you. And it all starts ultimately in the next
video.

PT3

Okay, this is it, jump starters. This is the video of the week where you want to
put the most attention and the most time into. And I have found, I'm telling you,
this is going to lead you to success if you'll properly give this the attention in
time that's needed to really analyze and really internalize what you truly want.
Now, I can tell you, before I meet with a client, before, it doesn't matter if
they're a YouTuber or a brand, I actually have them go through this exercise. And a
lot of you know that I've worked a lot with Mr. Beast and he is probably one of
the most impressive creators that I've ever seen. He is so talented, so super smart.
And what really drew me into him is really seeing how creative it he is,
but how driven he is. He's driven to succeed. A lot of you that might not know
him, basically he gets over 400 million video views a month. He's getting well over
a million new subscribers a month. And he is the most disruptive creator. I've seen
it that was actually disrupting it in a positive way. That's still family friendly
and safe.
I am willing to do whatever it takes to become the number one YouTuber on the
platform. Like he knew what he wanted. He understood what he wanted to achieve. And
he says, I'll do anything. And I'm like anything. And he says, well, within reason.
But I, you know, we need to keep it safe. I don't want to have this little
incident like other YouTubers have, like, just trying to get it to the edge. And he
has a very clear mission of what he wants to achieve as well. Now, that being
said, as I was digesting videos, I stumbled upon this little gym. At the time I'm
recording this video, I have 8 ,000 subscribers and 1 .8 million views. I just got a
random spark of motivation to make a video and schedule upload it six months later.
So, yeah, I'm making this video right now and I have AK subs. Hopefully, in six
months, I don't still have AK subs. And, yeah, I'm just going to schedule,
upload this video for six months down the road. And then after this, I'm going to
schedule upload a video for a year, and then five years, and then a decade.
Hopefully, dude, if I'm still doing YouTube in a decade, that'd be crazy. But,
yeah, what would I want to say to me in six months? Hopefully you're still
uploading daily. Let's see, six months. Hopefully you have at least 15 and
subscribers future me so
yeah i just got bored and uh hey future me it's been a year so i can i hope you
have at least a year what do i 50k subs ah that seems kind of high uh yeah i
hope you have 50k subs if you don't you're freaking failure in life holy crap hate
myself um
Um, in two years.
I hope you have at least 100k subs. If you don't have 100K subs, I, um, I'm gonna
disown you. I just, I, I know you're gonna have, I'm, I'm gonna have 200, yeah,
I'm gonna have 200k subs. Um, 200k, 100k, probably 200k, hopefully 200k.
Um, All right, 100K subs. You better have it, man. You better. Hopefully you're
still daily uploading. Probably not. You're in college. I don't know. I don't know.
Yeah. Wow. Now, just like JFK said, hey, I'm going to get to the moon. Here he
is. Being young, he is a young kid here saying, hey, future me, this is where I
want to be in X amount of time. Now, he wasn't doing that to actually get views
at the time but what he was doing is making a statement to the world of where he
wanted to be so it's all about making your own statement of what you want in this
video i'm going to teach you how to get to that line how to really get where you
need to be by making that ultimate statement because you're going to identify exactly
what you're wanting you're going to understand your finish line and how to get there
now part of this is you need a good coach You need a good person to help motivate
you. I want you to see this video clip of someone that knows where they want to
be, but it doesn't know their limits. It's not even funny, dude.
So, Coach, how strong is Westview this year? What's stronger than we are?
You already written Friday night down as a lost, Brock? Well, not if I know we
could beat them.
Come here, Brock. You too, Jeremy.
What am I in trouble now? Not yet. I want to see you do the death crawl again,
except I want to see your absolute best.
What? You only go to the 30? I think you can go to the 50. 50. I can go to the
50 if nobody's on my back. I think you can do it with Jeremy on your back. But
even if you can, I want you to promise me you're going to do your best. All
right. Your best. Okay. You're going to give me your best?
I'm going to give you my best. All right, one more thing. I want you to do it
blindfolded. Why? Because I want you giving up at a certain point when you can go
further. Get down. Jeremy, get on his back.
Now get a good tight hold, Jeremy. All right, let's go, Brock.
Keep you news off the ground, just your hands and feet. There you go, a little bit
left, a little bit left. There you go. Show me good effort.
How don't we, Brock? You keep coming.
There you go.
It's a good start, a little bit left, a little bit left. There you go, Brock.
Good strength.
Good strength.
That's it, Brock. That's it. About the 20 yet? Forget the 20. You give me your
best. You keep going. That's it.
Don't stop, Brock. You got more than you than that. I ain't done. Just resting a
second. You gotta keep moving. Let's keep moving. Let's go. Don't quit till you got
nothing left. There you go. Keep moving. Keep moving.
You're very best. Keep driving. Keep driving. There you go. There you go. That's it.
You keep driving. Keep your knees off the ground. Keep driving it. Don't quit till
you've got nothing left. Keep moving, Brock. That's it. That's it. That's it.
Keep going. I want everything you got. Come on, keep going. It hurts.
Don't quit on me. Your very best. Keep driving. Keep driving. There you go. There
you go. He's He's heavy. I know he's heavy. I'm buying strength. Then you negotiate
with your body to find more strength, but don't you give up on me, Brock. You keep
going. You keep going. You're doing good. You keep going. It hurts.
I know it hurt. You keep going. You keep going. It's all hard from here. Thirty
more steps. You keep going, Brock. Come on. Keep going. And let it burn.
The hours are burning. It's all harsh. You Keep going, Brock. Come on, come on.
Keep going. You promise me your best. Your best. Don't stop. Keep going. Too hard.
It's not too hard. You keep going. Come on, Brock. Give me more. Give me more.
Keep more. Keep more. Keep more. Keep going.
Keep going. Don't quit.
Don't quit. Don't quit.
Brock Kelly, you don't quit. Keep going!
Come on, Brock, come on, don't quit!
I've got into 50, I'll have any more.
You're in the end zone.
You are the most influential player on this team. If you walk around defeated, so
will they. Oh, tell me you can't give me more than what I've been seeing. You just
carried a 140 -pound man across this whole field on your arms.
We need you.
God's gifted you with the ability of leadership. Don't waste it. Coach. Can I count
on you?
Cope.
What is it, Jeremy? I weigh 160.
Now, that's probably one of the most motivational clips that I've ever seen is
because sometimes you and I, as humans, we don't believe in our full potential.
And there are people that are able to see that full potential. And those are our
coaches. Now, where I am here helping you and Channel Jumpstart, I want to be your
coach. I want to help you become successful. That's my purpose and my mission of
really furthering my work here. And it all starts with you. And so even though that
sometimes you're blindfolded and you're not seeing, and once you're motivated and you
know, you have that encouragement, you're able to push a little bit harder, work a
little bit better, work a little bit smarter. And yeah, it's going to be exhausting.
You got more than you than that. I ain't done. Just rest in a second. You got to
keep moving. Let's keep moving. Let's go. Don't quit till you got nothing. But it's
going to be worth it. And you're going to get to your finish line.
And that's what we're going to achieve with the ultimate jump start. Now, it's my
purpose and mission is helping you get to the finish line. I'm going to help coach
you and train you. And what we're going to cover now is really defining what you
need to do. You need to declare to the world what you're going to do. And the
best way that I've been able to do this exercise is I developed this channel
jumpstart. Now, you can find it below this video. There's a link that you can
actually click on and get a PDF. Do that right now. Okay, now that you have the
workbook, let's go ahead and pull it out. Let's open it up where we're talking
about the mission. And I'm here to tell you, I've seen people just like Mr.
Beast that understood where they wanted to be and understanding your mission and your
vision, it will help you really define what that finish line is and it will keep
in line with what you want to do here on in this earth. So let's go ahead and
open up the page. You can see why are you on YouTube? Now, this is where I want
you to go ahead and pause and write out why you are on YouTube. What's the reason
behind it? Is it something that you always want to do as a kid? Is it a business
opportunity? Look, there's a million different reasons why you're on YouTube. Go ahead
and put your reason of why you're on YouTube right now.
Next question is, what are you doing right now for income? And the reason why I do
that is because there are certain people that do this full time as income and
there's other people that want to be able to do other things as full time for
income or they want to quit their job and do this as full time income but what we
want to do is make sure it's in line because sometimes people think that they want
one thing when they really don't and this helps and goes through the process of
understanding truly what they want
now what do you love about your work? Do you want to change it? And this right
here, I know for me, the moment that I decided to go self -employed and really take
that leap, because it was a leap. I had a brand new baby. My wife was our sugar
mama keeping me through school. And then once the baby was born, we just decided
that she was going to nurture and teach that child and I provide for the child.
Now, that was our decision of what to do. But I can tell you that at that,
as you do this go ahead and fill out that section
okay now you see right here where it says other notes this is where you're actually
going to take some time and put in your thoughts uh outside of this little training
here you're going to actually take it this week really give some thoughts of your
mission put some other notes in there now i know a lot of you like why aren't we
doing this digital. Well, you can if you do it through the PDF, but I like to
write things out. It makes it a little bit more concrete and less digital, but you
can do whatever you would like to do. Now here, if you are a content creator that
is already a full -time YouTuber, in your other notes, there are certain things about
this job that you don't like to do or you love to do. I want you to go ahead
and put that in your other notes and take some time. This is thing that I do very
consistently in work. It's what I call workweek analytics and I write down all the
stuff that I did and I highlight everything that I hate doing and all the things
that wasted my time and that's what I assigned to other people. Very important. So
you could do the same thing in your other notes, but I want you to really
understand this is all about motivation. Having a mission, having a vision is all
about keeping you motivated to do the hard things, which is actually doing what
needs to be done to be successful. Now we are going on to a vision. Vision engages
the heart and the spirit. Vision leads towards a worthwhile goal. A vision gives
meaning to effort. A vision is simple. A vision is attainable.
And a vision can change over time. Now, this not going to be confused with your
mission. Your mission should rarely change. It's like something fixed.
You know what it is. I know why what my mission is and my vision needs to align
with the mission and it has all these different things. So does it engage the heart
and the spirit leads towards a worthwhile goal? A vision gives meaning to an effort.
A vision is simple. A vision is attainable. A vision can change over time. Now, the
biggest question, and I want you not necessarily to pause the video here, this is
something that's going to take a little bit more time, a little bit more thought. I
find myself having a little bit more clarity in the morning. My wife has a lot
more clarity at night. It's whatever you need to do it. Maybe it's the afternoon
after your siesta. I don't know. But I want you to answer these questions. Why are
you wanting to make content? What effect do you want your content to have on the
world? What do you want your content to be known for? Okay, next in the workbook
is where do you want to be in three years, where do you want to be in two years,
where do you want to be in one year, where do you want to be in six months, and
where do you want to be in three months? Now, I can tell you, this is going to
take you some time, and I don't want you to jump further than you can. And where
I always start is the three -year mark. I truly do believe that you can achieve
anything in this world in three years. You just have to have enough dedication. You
have to put the right team together and enough determination to actually pull things
off. And it's really, at the end of the day, getting to the right people at the
right time, doing the right things, okay? I want you to take some time and actually
put your vision in here. This will take a couple days to do. I just think about
it, put it in there. once it's to get
to me. And then I start breaking down goal setting. And it all starts with the
vision. Like I want to know what I'm going to be in three years. And I start
thinking, you know, on my current trajectory, what I'm doing in my business, my
life, my YouTube channel, whatever it may be, where do I want to be in three
years? And I figure that out every July. Now, this is where it's interesting and it
takes a little bit of time. Now, I marinate on this and I think about it. I
process it and I have it go through six months. And at January 1st is when it
becomes active. So I have time to massage this if I need to. And then ultimately I
start setting goals because I'm a goal setter. And I believe in setting goals and
achieving goals. And I'll tell you what, I kind of get this satisfaction. I cannot
explain when I'm able to set an impossible goal by other standards and also in my
own standards and achieve it. Like, I just get super excited. Like, you've never
seen me smile like this before. I'm like, yes, that's what I do. And I'm telling
you, I get, I get amped. And so the next stage of this is setting up goals.
Now, it's not any goals. These are smart goals. Now, you're probably wondering, what
is a smart goal? Well, it is an acronym, and the first thing is being very
specific. Specific, does your goal clearly and specifically state what you're trying
to achieve? Now, if you're too broad, like, let's bring this in. Let's narrow it
in. Like, we want to get very, very specific of what you're able to do. Now, next,
is your goal measurable? How will you and others know if progress is being made on
achieving the goal? Can you put numbers on it? Can you quantify, like get a little
bit of detail on this? And, you know, to make it smart, it needs to be measurable.
Next, is your goal attainable? Is achieving your goal dependent on anyone else? Is
it possible to reframe your goal so it only depends on you and not others? What
are the factors that will prevent you from achieving your goal? Now, is your goal
smart? Is your goal relevant? Why is achieving your goal important to you? What
values in your life does the goal reflect? What effect will achieving your goal have
on your life or on others. Now, the last one is timebound. Just like JFK says,
we're going to get there by the end of the decade. This is really, really
important. If your goal is smart, it is timebound. When are you going to reach your
goal? And again, if your goal is particularly large, break it down into smaller
goals with appropriate incremental deadlines. Okay, so let's go ahead and jump right
in. And I'm going to go ahead and set a smart goal and show you how to do it
and then act after the end of that that's when I want you to go ahead and go
through this process the first thing here it says what is your goal in one sentence
bottom line give it's a bottom line for me my goal is this I will record all the
videos in eight sections for channel jump start before vid summit October 15th 2019
the benefits of achieving this goal will be, well, it's going to free up more of
my time. Second, it's going to create a way where I don't have to kill and do so
many hours. We're going to so many different people. I can literally go back and
teach one on many. I can teach all of you. And then the third thing is it's going
to benefit the people that are taking the course and helping them along the journey
of understanding the system and getting where they want to be. Let's go ahead and
do an evaluation. Is my goal smart? So the first thing is, is it specific?
You be the judge here. Is it specific? I think it's really specific. Is it
measurable? Well, yes. Like, how do you know when you're going to reach your goal?
Let's look at it. How am I going to know when I'm going to reach this goal? Next,
is it attainable. Well, this is where it's a little tough. Now, I have multiple
businesses that I run. There are emergencies that could come up. There's a lot of
things that can distract. I actually have a personal assistant who a lot of you
will get to know that really moves my calendar around, but there's things that
happen. Family issues could come up. You never know. But everything that I look
right here, it is attainable and I'm able to do it because I don't need to rely
on anyone else. It's just me. Is it relevant? Why is your goal important to you
and hone in why it matters. Well, for me, this is extremely relevant. It gets me a
little bit closer to my ultimate goal of what I'd like to achieve in the next 12
months. Time bound. When are you going to achieve this goal? Well, I'm going to
achieve it before VidSummit. You're able to see VidSummit 2019. I'm able to achieve
this goal. And I'll know if I've achieved the goal by then, if I'm able to
accomplish with all those tasks. Okay, now you probably think okay now that you have
this ready to go your goal is set and this is where so many creators fell and so
many people fell in their goal setting is we got to take it a step further and it
comes to this section of this page you got to create an action plan now a lot of
people just stop right there they make their smart goal they're ready to go but
ultimately we need an action plan that's why we have this as an action plan to
help you become successful and achieve your goal, so I need to know what I need to
do. So for this video, as we're going through this action plan, the reason why I'm
here shooting on a Saturday, mind you, and not with my family, is so that I can
achieve the goal, because that's a task that I needed to do. I wanted to create
three videos today. That's a task that would lead me closer to getting to my goal.
That's where you need to put your task down and really look at the expected
completion date and when you actually completed the project. Now, I can tell you
right now, sometimes my tasks get bumped. There's things that goes on and I want to
be able to see the difference of when I estimated it could happen and when it
actually happened. Lastly, these are all the things that you're doing before you even
do them. So it's like you cannot be reactive. You have to be proactive in here.
You've got to think of all the little tasks that will take you there. I know the
sheet's not big enough sometimes you have to have another sheet that you need to do
I actually have a little notebook on the side of my computer where I put all my
tasks that I'm able to do to get me closer to these goals because it's a lot more
than the section that we have here how will you address the challenge that when
they arise now for me my obstacle for this the biggest obstacle is my time I am
literally pulling in million different directions my schedule's crazy so I can tell
you I already identified that as an obstacle. Do you want to know my solution to
that obstacle? This is before I even did the task. This is before anything. This is
all in the planning and the preparation stage. It is 100 % wake up at 3 .30 a .m.
and come to work and record a few videos before work actually starts. Come on.
I mean, that is the solution for me. I'm not saying this what you need to do. But
I already went through this, I went through all the different obstacles that I'm
facing and I came up with not only one solution, but multiple solutions. Like today,
right now, it's not 3 a .m., but it's a Saturday. And I would love to be with my
family, but that's what I already committed to do so that I'm able to achieve the
goal and get closer to my main goal, which is freeing up my time and spending more
time with my family in the given year. Now, this next section in really creating
this smart goal and creating an action plan for that is actually having some
accountability. Now, I'm here to tell you, you need an accountability partner. But
for me, my accountability partner is, number one, my wife in a lot of this aspects.
For this specific goal, my accountability partner is my executive assistant, and she
can crack the whip. So who can you actually share your goal with.
Talk to one or two individuals who generally want you to succeed.
Explain to them why you're achieving this goal and why it's important to you. Also
ask them to support you and hold you accountable to reach your goals and then
select and agree upon future dates that you will report your updates and progress.
Now there's a section here where you're able to sign and I believe that when you
actually sign these documents and people see it, it gets you a little bit more
invested. Now, I want to tell you, I'm a big proponent of setting goals, and I'm a
big proponent of having the networking and support to actually achieving the goals.
Now, one of the things that I do in this process is I actually have goals, and
there is a mastermind group that I actually go to and be a part of, and we help
each other with our goals, and I tell them everything that I'm doing in my
business. I'm saying this is what I'm going to do and when I'm going to do it by.
We go through the whole thing and they hold me accountable because it's right there
in the meeting with three other people. So this is something I encourage you to do.
We're going to talk a lot deeper about accountability partners and also the support
here in Channel Jumpstart and some really exciting opportunities down the road where
I'll create a mastermind and help you become more successful. I'm all for that.
Look, I can tell you, right here right now, I know this is a lot of the process,
but here's part of the system is we are going to do so much prep of understanding
where we'd like to be, where we want to go, all the obstacles, things that we need
to do, and make sure that our goals are in line with it. And once you're able to
go through this process, you're able to replicate this. And I don't even need a
notebook anymore. I just need a notebook of what I'm going to do, what I'm going
to do, I set my smart goals, and then I have my task sheet because I stayed
really, really focused. I look at those daily. Now, here is your first assignment.
Yes, you've been doing this as we're going, but now your assignment is to go
through this workbook, once again, set your vision and your mission. Those are
really, really important, and I want you to set your first goal and get your
accountability partner so that they can sign off on your goal and make sure that
it's smart and that you're getting where you need to be. Now, you might do this
for other things besides YouTube, but make sure that this first goal has everything
to do with your growth on YouTube and becoming successful here on the platform.
I can tell you right here, this is the system. This is the action plan that I
take to truly become successful, not only in business, not only in my personal life,
but all aspects of my life, including my spirituality. And that's what I love is
you can use this for anything. This is a truth that you can build upon this
foundation, but it starts right here, right now, all about the channel jumpstart, and
it starts with you.

PT4

Hey, jump starters, ready to jump right in and really cover something that's near
and dear to my heart, which is your commitment to achieve your dreams, your
commitment to achieve your goals. Now, we actually covered this in the workbook where
we define what your mission and your vision is, and we actually started through the
process of creating smart.
which we actually provide here in Channel Jumpstart. Now, I want to talk about
focus, focus in on achieving, and I'm a firm believer of this. Now, if you notice
in your box that I set you, I sent you one of these. Now, what's inside of that
is a nice little jump starter pen, and the reason why I wanted to send that to
you is I want you to take it out of the box, and I want you to commit to really
succeed, and that commitment comes in here. The jumpstart declaration. This is key
for success. This is key to keep you focused. What I want you to do is really
affirm that you are going to do 100 % what it takes to be successful. You're going
to commit to watch every video and do every assignment and do every task and listen
to every single word. This is the commitment that you're making. And what I want
you to do is sign it. I'm going to have you sign it right here. And what I want
you to do next is take it and place it where you have to see it every single day
when you're working on your content. And I want you to stay focused in on your
smart goals and really getting to where you want to be. I do know this, that if
you'll put the time and energy in really consuming the content that I'm giving you
and you're getting on the calls and you're prepared where you're able to ask
questions with our group coaching, and you will succeed. And let me tell you why,
because when you really have the information for success and you have a mentor to
help you get to where you want to be, all you need to do is do the work. You
have to do the tasks, and you have to ask the questions, well, why are we doing
this? Why are we doing that? That is key, and that's gonna really help you succeed
here in channel jumpstart. That's what it means to be a jump starter. You've got to
declare that you are a jump starter, that you're willing to jump in, consume and be
a student, which is key. And also, the best type of student is the ones that do
every little thing. They're watching every video. They're doing every assignment.
They're asking the appropriate questions. But they're also becoming a jump starter in
helping other people by answering their questions. So it's actually creating this
community that's what it means to be a jump starter i can't wait for you to sign
this and see it every day while we help you become successful here in channel
jumpstart

PT5 

Hey, jump starters, we are ready to jump right in and go over the frequently asked
questions for Section 1. Now, I want you to watch this video because a lot of your
questions will be answered here. And more importantly, we're going to jump on a live
call. And if I don't answer the question here, I'll answer your personalized question
on the call with me. And I will give you your personalized answer. There we go.
Now, this is going to be fun. I really love what we're doing here. I love helping
you. So Justin, what is that first question? Daryl, get ready. Here comes the first
question. And what we have is regarding getting bad feedback slash advice.
How do I discern between good feedback and bad when I'm not familiar with the
platform or who to reach out to at this moment? That is a great question,
and feedback is so important, especially helping you make those data -driven decisions.
And with Channel Jump Start, what I want you to do is be very cautious of who you
actually get feedback from. We actually have a Discord group, and in that Discord
group, we actually have other Jumpstarters that completed the course, and some of
them been in over a year. Why wouldn't you want to hear from them? I mean, They've
gone through this path. They've got to understand the system that's going on. And
then also we actually put you in a group. You have a group leader who is your
coach, your accountability coach, and they're also going to give great feedback.
They've also gone through that program. And then also my team here, you can reach
out to them on Discord. You can, you're going to have calls with them as well as
you're going through this process. You can get feedback from them. But more
importantly, I'm here to tell you, you always want to prepare when you have time
with me for group coaching. Why? Because I can give you feedback as well as long
as it's dealing with the topics at hand. Well, Darrell, that was a great answer on
how to get that good feedback and good strategies. Now, if I can take that answer
for just one moment, This is what I would focus on when looking for what is the
right advice when you're starting out on a YouTube channel or you've been there and
everybody is just a yes person and they're always saying, oh, that's so good. When,
you know, your views just aren't really getting what you need. Now, this is where I
love this is the group we have right here in Discord. We have all the jumpsters
that have gone through the program for you and are going in it right now and
they're learning these best practices on what works with youtube and how to grow
your channel so i would focus on getting feedback right here in discord especially
as the new sections open up and as you learn more and more we're going to have
thumbnail review video review working on those story arcs and that's where you can
get some great solid feedback so great question. All right. So what is the next
question, Justin? We've got another question coming up. Like always, every question I
love because there's no bad question out there. So right now we've got I struggle
with non -numerical goals like sponsorships, brand deals, etc. How do you go about
breaking them down compared to numerical goals like subscriber counts? That is a
great question and I am so goal centered and I am in super focused in on all
goals in my life, not just on the YouTube side, but also on the financial side. I
can tell you that sometimes when content creators are looking at YouTube,
they only look at subscribers. And I can tell you for me, even with my biggest
clients, we're always talking about money because money allows you to do what you
need to do, or you can leverage it in a way to grow where you need to grow. So
money has always been a big indicator with me, especially in setting goals, and
we've had several jump starters that put very specific goals of where they wanted to
be, and they got them. You know, you just got to make sure that they're smart and
make sure that it's attainable and it's timebound. I mean, those two things are
really, really important. also you got to put out the roadmap. You have to put the
plan. You have to figure out all the things that are helping you get to that
point, all the obstacles that are there, and then put it down for your
accountability partner. And realistically, you can put down what you're going to make.
Now, for me, when I want to get very tactical, I like to go in line upon line,
precept upon precept. And so if I have this really, really, really big goal, I
might put it way out there, you know, three or four years. And then a very smaller
goal, which Thank you.
And you can leverage that money to help invest into your YouTube channel. - Daryl,
that's always a great answer when it comes to brand deals and sponsorships and
really working those non -numerical goals. So great answer, really appreciate it every
time. If I can just jump in on this question as well, what I would do is with
those non -numerical goals. For instance, let's take the brand, working with brands
are finding that sponsorship. Week one, what I do is I jump on to Discord,
start reaching out to other jump starters who have successfully gained some
sponsorships or brand deals. And then I'd ask them, hey, what tips and tricks do
you have where I can succeed? Because I'm really looking into this. I've gotten a
couple of people that have reached out to me, a couple of businesses, but I don't
know if it's the right fit. So I would start by doing research by asking questions,
getting to know. And then from there, I would create a longer term plan of, okay,
one month from now, I want to be ready with a pitch deck. I want to know my
analytics on how I can talk to these brand deals or these potential sponsorships and
say, okay, this is what I can bring to you because my audience is this. I know
this because of these analytics right here and you can see that by using me and
this plan that I have created with these videos with your product we're going to
have this percentage of success or this dollar amount or this transaction rate all
based on these numbers so it's all about creating that plan first so one week doing
some research maybe a month out going okay I'm gonna prepare my pitch deck I'm
gonna prepare all these numbers based on the research and the feedback I've got from
other jump starters, and bam, I'm going to go out there and get it. Okay, Justin,
what is the next question? Okay, we've got another question coming on up. Here it
comes to you. I haven't started my channel, and I don't know what would be good
quantifiable goals. What advice can you give to someone just starting out?
That is a great question, and here's my answer. It's going to be something simple,
and I wish all jump starters would actually have this as a goal. Doesn't matter if
you're brand new or if you have 10 million subscribers, which some of you actually
do. I would actually do this as a goal. You're going to commit to be a jump
starter. You're going to commit to watch every single video. You're going to commit
to do every single assignment. You're able to jump on every single call and take
advantage of this program. Take advantage learning this system. Get involved on
Discord.
been in the YouTube game for a while. Someone that started a channel maybe a couple
years ago, got a little fatigue, a job, something that's transitioned them away from
YouTube and they're really passionate and want to get back in it, just like someone
that's starting out with a new channel. So a good, solid, quantifiable goal because
analytics aren't really getting there yet for you because you don't have enough
views. I would be looking at what Daryl always says. Consistency is key.
And they've talked about a lot of that of getting your videos out if I'm going to
do one video a week or two videos a week, but being consistent with that. And
sometimes if you're not ready for those videos, it's okay, how about I come up with
some thumbnail topics? How about I come up with three of those a week? What about
my video ideas? Now that I'm starting to understand things like video buckets, how
can I apply that weekly so what you're doing is you're creating quantifiable goals
for setup to really get your channel going working through the best practices so
that when you're able to pick up that camera and point and click you're prepared
because you've set up specific quantifiable goals you've got all your thumbnails ready
you've got all your video ideas ready for the next six months you figured out how
to batch you and you are ready to rock and roll and let's just jump right into
the next question because of that
goals because your passion, your mission, your vision, your purpose for why you're
doing this is what's going to get you through the hard short -term grind. What is
your goal three years from now, five years from now? Why are you doing this? Is it
for your family? Is it to help others? Is it to uplift? That's what's going to
push you through those short -term goals because sometimes, to be honest, we've had
jump starters set some goals and they fell a little short but within that short
time they were able to learn process and yes a lot of them were able to reach
those goals not when they first set them for that time period but eventually they
got them because they stuck through it because of their mission their vision and
their purpose so definitely set those long -term goals don't wait until 12 weeks from
now, find out why you're doing it and do it with all your heart and passion while
you're going through this program because that's why you're here. And that's what
you're here for. Now, I love the example of Elon Musk because that is the perfect
example. Here he has a long -term goal and all the little things that he needs to
do to get to that long -term goal. It really gives him the fire and the vision and
the mission to get to Mars and it really helps him push him through all these
little small little details that have to be done. For me, I like to set at least
one long -term goal and then figure out some smaller goals that are more short -term,
like what we were talking about, like completing with Channel Jumpstar and doing
every little thing that we ask you to do. Okay, Justin, what is the next question?
Okay, Darrell, this question, I think, hits all of us so strongly emotionally when
things just don't go right when you start off a program and you're going you know
what things didn't turn out how I helped how do I overcome those those mind that
mindset so the jump starter asks what if I apply myself fully and I do all the
things but it doesn't work I don't get the growth I want to see what then I'm
feeling quite a lot of pressure to make YouTube work. Any advice on how to deal
with this? Okay, so I love that one, and I can feel your pain.
I know that a lot of times we put the time, energy, and effort, and we're going
through, and it just doesn't work. And I want to share with you about a jump
starter that actually started the program, and they were so ambitious, and they had
a lot of content. They've been doing YouTube for years, and this is like their last
ditched effort to really want to succeed. And ultimately, when they were actually
putting forth the time, they were going and they did every little thing. And they
were getting super frustrated. I remember at the end of the 12 weeks, they're like,
I just can't get this to work. I see everybody else getting success, and I just
can't do it. You know, I just think that YouTube's out to get me. I'm like, no,
no, no, no. You've got to be patient. You've got to wait. You've got to look for
that trigger, and it will click. And I can tell you right now, it not only took
two months, it took three additional months before he saw his growth. And not only
did he grow, he grew faster than anyone else. It was crazy, crazy. And so my point
to you is have patience, trust the system. This is the foundation that I've used to
get 54 billion video views and a lot of gold play buttons.
Seriously. And I know this works. We've been using it. I've seen Jumpstarters use
it. And they just have to apply. They have to be patient. And then ultimately be
looking for that opportunity to get your videos to really pop, to get people to
really want to click and want to finish to the end and then having that data
relationship that we're going to talk about so important in Channel Jumpstart. Okay,
Justin, what's the next one? Darrell, I just love all your answers. You just give
such great feedback and taking things complex and bringing them down understandable so
that everybody on any level can understand what they need to do to succeed. So
thank you for the answer. Okay, Darrell, here we go. It's the last frequently asked
question for Section 1. I hope you're ready for this one. It's a good one and the
Jumpstarter asks I also added a few goals not directly in my control such as a
higher CTR subscriber goals and income goals should these goals be removed from my
multi -year vision absolutely not I mean that's one of the best goals that you could
have because you do have control over that you just need to learn how to actually
do it so on the time bound Make sure you put enough time that you can learn what
you need to do, especially here in Channel Jumpstart to get a higher CTR. Like
seriously, do you get a higher ABD? You're going to learn that so that you know
actually how to apply it for your channel. Now to jump on that question on if
these goals should be removed because they're not in your control directly. I think
all it is is taking any goal and tweaking it and see what can I do to make it
work for my success. For instance, we talk about CTR. Well, it's all about learning
your audience and what gets the click. Diving in, especially next week when we open
up Section 2 and you become a student of thumbnails and video structure, you will
learn that you do have that ability to adapt and adjust the CTR and it's becoming
that student. Also, subscribers. It's learning how to engage your audience yet granted
you can't get over there and break through their computer and physically grab and
make them subscribe but you can talk to them and relate to them and where they
feel so comfortable and they enjoy being with you so much that they're not just
watching one video and then bouncing but watching two maybe three but if you're
releasing four or six videos a month they're watching every single video that they
want to know and they want to be a part of your channel and your story. They just
feel like they're with you. So that's what I would recommend is looking at things
like that and saying, okay, how can I tweak and adjust this and make this happen?
Well, Daryl, thank you so much. Those are all the questions that we have for
section one. And we really appreciate your insight and your thought and your time
putting into, into this program to really help all of see it a little better. Okay,
so if you have additional questions that you would like to ask, these were the
frequently asked questions. Go ahead and below this video, there is a link to a
forum. I want to be able to answer your questions when it comes to section one,
because this is really important for me, to get your personalized questions, and I
can give you a personalized answer, and it'll be a win -win, right? All right, guys,
can't wait to see you on the next video.
