2 Understanding Your Channel & Your Content 

PT1 

Hey, jump starters, you're ready to jump right into Section 2. Well, before we get
started, I hope you're processing what you learned in Section 1 and you brought a
lot of moments of clarity of why you're on YouTube, what you're about to do.
Because just uploading videos, I'm not about that. Like, I'm more about vision,
mission, purpose, and be really in line with where you want to go and then actually
set an action plan and goals to get you closer to where you want to be. Now, for
me, I was able to share my heart and share with you kind of my vision and my
purpose and the reason why I'm doing Channel Jump Start to influence you here today.
And I want you to take that really seriously. Now, for this group and this group
alone, just need to give you some context of what's happening in the next 14 weeks.
Normally we do this 12 weeks, but with your group, we're going to do it for 14
weeks. It might be a little bit longer, and so you're going to have a lot more
value to really get what we're teaching here and learn the system that we're going
to present to you and to be able to apply it into your YouTube channel. So the
reason why we are redoing some things it's not because the content's outdated.
It's not even remotely close to that. I've been using this system since 2012, and
the bulk of my views and success on YouTube is because of the system I'm going to
teach you. Now, that being said, I want to be able to kind of go through my
process of what we take very seriously, especially here in Channel Jumpstart and be
a part of this community, but we like to see what's going on. and I noticed
after learning the system and things start to pop off, or it could even be six
months. And I started to see some similarities, and these similarities were very
interesting, and I had a hypothesis of some of the things that might not be
understood when I'm teaching in Channel Jumpstart, and I need to be able to go more
in depth. And ultimately, I've noticed a couple Channel Jump Start students that have
been doing this for years. They've been on every cohort call and every Q &A because
what we do and what we say is once a jump starter or always a jump starter. So
as long as channel jump starts online, when a new group comes in, you can
experience at the same time because ultimately our heart is to want you to succeed
and the best way to do it is when you get the material. And sometimes it takes a
little time to process. There's a lot to take in. And some of you are a little
bit further along that journey than others. Some are just starting out and so on.
But we noticed that a few people that would just kind of pop off in a couple
years, and we've been able to survey them saying, what happened? What was going on?
And ultimately, they explained, oh, I finally got what you were teaching in Section
2 and Section 3. it clicked for me and ultimately we were looking at the wrong
thing and we were we were planning on the wrong thing and I started to see that
pattern with the students that that would just kind of come a little bit later and
I'm like well let's kind of have a discussion let's kind of have a dialogue on
what that looks like so for us I actually have a continuation of channel jump start
we have group coaching that Justin leads and then I do mastery that Justin, myself
and Jackson lead and then also inner circle. And I started to ask questions of
where people are at in their journey and then two really hone in on the material
that we're going to actually present to you in Section 2. What we found out was
the people that were really pushing the needle had a very clear understanding of
what I'm teaching here in section two. Other people, they was a little bit hazy,
you know, a little bit, you know, they're still trying to figure it out. And part
of that had to do with the way that they're internalizing it. And so I sat down
with our team and says, how are we going to really teach us in a way that more
people can understand? Because it is very complicated. I bit is complicated and we
we try to overcomplicate things just naturally as humans and so for me I was able
to have this aha moment of the best way to really start teaching you the process
of what to look at why to look at and and then also the fine little details now
along this journey there's been other things that have came out so you might have
noticed in the news and a lot of creators are talking about AI and how amazing it
is. And for us, we've been using AI for a very long time. Like, we really have.
In fact, we own a couple of businesses that are AI -driven, that are kind of
lateral. It's nothing to do with Channel Jumpstart. But for us, we've seen kind of
where AI is coming in as a tool for creators. And then we also seen creators start
using AI to try to get more information. And so for us, it was kind of converging
with AI and seeing the confusion of the creators were coming on to Channel
Jumpstart. And we actually found a way to present it to you and also to package it
for you to really, really understand who your viewer is. And so really excited for
you, especially this group, because this group is the first group. I'm going to take
the most time with you. We're going to refine this, so things might not be as
polished as they could, and that's okay, because all you care about is getting the
information, right? That's right. Come on now. And so we'll polish it up.
We'll be able to get things going because you can always come back and watch it
over and over again. But your group, I'm going to probably ask more questions and
there's been more surveys to make sure that you have the clarity that I think that
you need before we move on, because this section right here between section two and
section three is the most critical of really achieving YouTube success. At the end
of the day, it's all about this, and the more clarity you have here, it easy it
is to not only be predictable in your success, but it also relieves the stress
patterns that come onto our lives and we get freaked out because It's a business
and we understand, oh, if I do this, this is my process, and ultimately you have a
system that I want to teach you. And it's really going to be clear when it comes
around what I'm teaching here in Section 2 and Section 3. So we are really excited
to have you here and really experience this new Section 2 and Section 3. And then
just keep in mind, we're going to take this a little bit slower and make sure that
you have the clarity. because I have a hypothesis that if I can teach you this the
right way,

PT2

Hey, Jump Start is ready to jump right in and start going over Module 2. I'm
really excited about this because we're going to give the foundational elements for
the channel Jump Start system. Now, this is where it all starts, and ultimately, I
can tell you that a lot of you really would like to succeed and you put that in
your action plan and you put some goals and you're going to be very aggressive of
achieving your goals. And ultimately, I like to look for patterns of success.
And this system is something that we developed over many years working with many
YouTube creators and channels. And I'm really excited for you to experience this.
Now, a word of warning. We actually had some jump starters go through the program
and get amazing results. Look at these things. Their channels are literally exploding.
They're getting more views, more subscribers, and ultimately we know that the system
works. Now, we noticed another thing, and this is where the words of caution comes
in. I noticed that there is a subset of jump starters that weren't succeeding, and
I was like, what's going on? So I actually called them up. I wanted to have an
interview to see exactly what was going on because I'm looking for a pattern of
behavior because that's what we do in Channel Jumpstar. We're going to look for
patterns and we're going to analyze and adjust. So I wanted to see, is my teaching
style wrong? Do they not connect with the message? Am I not simple enough of when
I'm discussing the things that need to be done? And I found two common things.
Number one is that they actually didn't do the homework. So you've got to do the
homework. And number two, they were not laser focused. And let me explain number
two, because this is the biggest thing. The ones that actually succeeded, they had
one channel, and they were laser focused on their message, in their niche,
and all the different things. We're going to talk about buckets and so on and so
forth. But ultimately, they're laser focused on one channel.
Do you know what the other subset of the people that weren't succeeding? They're
trying to do two, three, sometimes even four channels, and they couldn't even keep
up with the work. Because ultimately, channel jumpstart is work. You're going to
learn the system in the process that I'm going to teach you to really succeed and
have amazing results if you're willing to put in the time to watch videos more than
once and really implement what I'm actually teaching here. So these are are words of
warning, please, please, please, only be laser -focused one channel. You can always
come back later and consume it over and over again for another channel, but it's
really important that you take the time that's necessary. You put a lot of money in
this investment of your time to really learn this system, and you can succeed when
you become laser -focused. You have the goal, you have the vision the mission and
the purpose and you actually follow the channel jumpstart system and that's where you
get amazing results and it all starts on the next video

PT3

Hey, jump starters, you're ready to jump right in and really start succeeding on
YouTube. Well, when it comes to success, we not only have to have our vision,
mission, and purpose, and set goals and have our action plan, but ultimately we need
to actually understand what motivates us to succeed. Now, this is also the key to
really start understanding YouTube is understanding human motivation. Now, I know that
some of you right now are thinking in the back of your mind, is this going to
work for me? Is this going to work for the type of content that I'm going to
create? You know, it might work for some, but will it work for me? Now, I want to
push out all that doubt and explain to you the process that we went through to
have you be a part of this group. You went through an application process and we
wanted to see if you're right for us and we're right for you. We wanted to also
use that as to the people that weren't going to align with our vision and mission.
We wanted to have them go learn somewhere else. And ultimately, we just wanted to
surround ourselves by people that wanted to impact the world, that wanted to bring
goodness in the world, to bring net, net positive content into the world. You are
here. We want to help you. We believe in you and ultimately I want you to push
all that stuff out of your head because you can succeed. We've done this for a
long time. I've been on YouTube since 2005. I've really helped, you know, different
YouTube channels, brands and businesses, the biggest in the world, achieve YouTube
success. And I really wanted to impact more. And that's the reason why we created
Channel Jumpstart is I can help more people and impact them in ways that I couldn't
do elsewhere. And so over the years, we've helped thousands of students in these
different types of niches succeed. Look at this list. I mean,
these are all the type of content you can create on YouTube. There's not a channel
out there that we haven't seen a lot of significant success and they're able to
quit their day jobs and do this full time and not only do it full time, but build
a business around this. And so we're really passionate really passionate about helping
you, and I'm here to tell you, we believe in you. You went through an application
process where we vetted you, and we're surrounding you by an accountability group and
coach to help you really start understanding what's going to lead to your success.
Now, we talked about motivation. You need to be motivated to take action.
You need to be motivated to do the things. That's why we started out in Section 1
covering your vision, mission, and purpose, and then also setting smart goals and
having an action plan so that you're motivated and surrounding yourself by like
-minded people that's going to encourage you or give you clarity on. That's going to
lead to a lot more success. Now, human motivation is one of those things that you
really need to understand. And in fact, it's actually the epicenter. Humans and human
motivation is the epicenter of everything that we're going to talk about here in
Channel Jumpstart. It's all about that. And on my journey, I've been able to learn
a lot. When I was younger, I actually saw a Super Bowl commercial. It was this
commercial by Wrigley Scott. Today we celebrate the first glorious anniversary of the
information, purification of
the old history.
Secure from the pests, obeying contradicted in the woods. Our unification of course
is more powerful a weapon than any fleet. What are we on earth? We are one people,
one resolve, one cause. Our We shall talk themselves to death,
and we will marry them with their own.
We shall prevail.
January 24, Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh, and you'll see why 1984 won't be
like 1984. That was amazing, I'm telling you, When they introduced the Macintosh,
it just blew me away, and I knew what I wanted to do. I wanted to make Super
Bowl commercials. That's all I wanted to do after that. Now, what I did next was I
started, you know, surveying people in my school, and I wanted to understand what
type of content that they liked, what they didn't like. And I noticed that there
were certain patterns that the cowboys or people that lived on a farm like the
Budweiser commercials and the people over here like the car commercials, and you
know, there's a few of us that actually liked the Riggly Scott, you know, the most
amazing commercial Super Bowl commercial of all time, which we really love. And I
started to see these patterns in people, and then I also started to see what
motivates them, why they do things, like their baggage that they carry, but also why
they were raised this way and they act that way. And so I was a very curious
person. And, you know, I kept this notebook and started to define these patterns in
a way that I could comprehend it. And later that year, I also started to see
another ad that really impacted me, and it was The Wendy's Where's the Beef Ad? It
certainly is a big bun. It's a very big bun. Big fluffy bun. It's a very big
fluffy bun. Where's the beef? Some hamburger places give you a lot less beef on a
lot of bun. Where's the beef? At Wendy's, we serve a hamburger we modestly call it.
I'm like, I got paper out. I got paper out money. He goes, yeah, you're saving
that for your mission when you go and serve God. And I'm like, well, I need it
now. And so he allowed me to buy a VCR. And I spent well over $700 to buy a VCR
so I can record Wendy's ads. And then I started to record Dunkin' Donuts ads,
Fred the Baker. Oh, it's time to make the donut. Great donut makers aren't born.
They're made.
I just love these ads. I did. I just wanted to be able to have these ads and
share with people that I wanted to share with, which was my friends. And so I'd
kind of sit by the TV and record all these ads and the content that I love. And
then I'd take the VCR and hook it over to their house, hook it up, and then we
would actually watch these ads and laugh and engage. And I also noticed that there
are certain people that didn't like certain ads and I'm like making notes. So all
this time, I'm starting to see people and what they're motivated by content, like at
a very young age. And over the course of my life, I became a student.
I became a student of people and culture. I want to understand people to a level
that I know how to impact them. If you want to change the world, you got to
understand the people that live in the world, right? And if we can motivate them to
take action or to do things, or we can lighten their burden or we can help their
mental health. That's what it's all about. So in high school, I'm like getting my
hands on anything marketing related or advertising related. And I stumbled upon this
paper that was written in 1946. That's right, 1946. And his paper was written by
Abraham Maslow. And this literally warped my brain because it started to put all
those pieces and patterns, and it made sense. It made sense for me and what
motivates me and motivates my family and motivates others. And it gave me the
clarity that, you know, at a young age, helped me make better decisions and also
actually understand the path to do things. And I can tell you this, that as I
started to really deep dive into that paper, I realized that the key to success is
human motivation. Like anything that we want to do. Like it doesn't matter what it
is. Like if we know how to motivate people, then they'll actually take action and
do things. And so I was really blown away by this and it really gave me a lot of
clarity on the things that I'm about to teach you. Here is the Maslow's hierarchy
of needs. If you look at there's different levels to it and we're going to go way
in depth on this in other sections. So the bottom rung is the physiological needs,
which is air, water, food, shelter, rest, and clothing. These are the things that we
need to to survive. Like if we don't have that, we're not surviving. Like, it's
not. Now, there might be one or two that's displaced and we can still survive, but
it's not a very comfortable situation. And so we have that desire or that need to
actually have these things. The next is safety needs. Now, that is security. like
security for your health, security for your employment, security for your safety.
It's all around that. And these are the things that can motivate people when they
feel like jilted a little bit. Something's out of line here that, you know, they
need something, they just can't put their finger on it. So ultimately, these are the
two bottom roads. Now, next, we're going to actually talk about the psychological
needs, which is esteem and love and belonging. And this is one of the biggest
indicators here on YouTube. This is what I really want you to understand. Because
when humans come together and really start pulling it, they want friendship and
relationships. And it doesn't matter how small the group is or how big the group
is. People just want to connect. Humans want to connect with other humans. Humans
want to hear from other humans. And so we gather in groups. We gather in groups of
friends and family and other like -minded professionals because we have that deep
desire and that sense of connection. Next, of esteem, you know, we want to feel
prestige. We want to feel accomplished. And that's what it's all about. Now, when it
comes to YouTube, I want to break it down on the psychological needs. I've created
the four C's caring, which is passion, connections, collaboration, and community.
This is kind of the gold for basically community development, audience development on
YouTube. Like if you want to develop an audience, if you just don't want views, but
you want people that are connected to what you are doing, that's where it starts.
It starts with, you know, feeling like they belong. They found the right place. And
when you're there, that's when they actually go through an effect to go deeper into
that community, which is watching multiple videos, sharing with like -minded people,
you know, connecting with others, you know, going to events and connecting a lot
deeper on this. And so this is where it's all about. Now, we're going to go a lot
more in depth on this in Channel Jump Start. There's something that I want you to
always be aware of, but realize that, you know, when you're uploading a video, it's
about the viewer. It's about the person. And what's going to motivate them to click
and what's going to motivate them to stay on the video and what's going to motivate
them to
content to the viewer and that's what it's all about. Now I want to talk about
this one. This is an interesting one. I normally don't talk about this out in
public or whatever just because there's so much depth here. Like I can literally
give hundreds of hours on this one thing. And it's about self -actualization.
Now this is the one that I probably reflect the most on and I kind of dig deep
in, which is desire to become more than I can be. I'm always trying to self
-improve. That's why I do goal -setting. That's why every July, I take some time off,
really focus myself, and really make sure that I'm aligned with my vision, mission,
and purpose. And then I'm also creating my three -year goals and an action plan to
achieve those goals. And so for me, this is really important for me to be a better
version of me every single year, every single day. And that's what it's all about.
Now, That being said, this is amazing content too when you really break it down
because self -discovery, personal pursuits between growth and fulfillment,
inspiration and guidance. This is where a lot of self -help and, hey,
do this and do that. And people are looking for a lot of clarity. Now, above self
-actualization, there's actually a rung on the top level, and it's where it goes
above and beyond self -actualization, which is transcendence.
Now, this is a human motivating factor. This is by far my number one thing that I
think about and do as a person, which is I want to help others reach their
potential. I want to transcend not only just doing it for me, but I want to help
others. And I know a lot of you are the same way. And that's why you're part of
this group. Well, how do we do that? Well, we do it through education. We do it
through spiritual guidance and also charitable work. And that kind of really
transcends ourselves and really impacts the world. So when I look at content that
brings value, you know, there's several different ways. I think that you can look at
the psychological needs or that sense of connection. But when it comes to the self
-actualization and transcendence, it's like literally leveling up or it's really taking
them deeper. Like for me, I always say it's when they drank the Kool -Aid, you
know, and a lot of my students have drank the Kool -Aid. It's not about money, it's
about really making an impact in people's lives. There was a quick interview that I
want to show you right now of one of my inner circle students, his name's Kindle
Gray. He has an outdoors channel, And he talks about this, about helping others, and
I want you to hear from his heart. I think one of the coolest things besides
seeing just the impact that you're having on the world and why you're creating
content, I've got to spend a lot of personal time with you. And you told me kind
of why you do YouTube. Can you just share with everybody? Like, why you actually
make videos and what motivates you? Because I know it's not the money. It's never
been about the money with you. Yeah, it's just there's a big need for,
like, community and friends out there, and a lot of people don't have that.
Yeah.
And tell me the process when you're capturing that footage, what's going through your
mind? Well, my mind is that the GoPro is my buddy and there he is and we're
taking him with me we're going fishing the good the bad the fails the catching the
fish everything but it's just me maybe I have a real life friend and the GoPro
which is the third friend which just happens to be the viewer and then after every
video maybe not every video but I like to go through the comments as much as I
can and read them because those are real people they're numbers but they're real
people and they're telling you real things in the comments like they'll they're good
a lot of them's like it's always a good day when he posts that's probably like 40
% of them but then you get those one comments that really like let you know who
they are and that's how you really learn about who your people are is by reading
the comments and meeting them out in person and you're just any way you can to
really learn more about them and then once you learn more about them you start to
actually appreciate them and that makes you want to make videos for them even more
because you actually know them yeah you actually care yeah I love that I love that
so I've taken a lot of creators out in the wild to go eat and you know whatever
and we go to remote places and you know and some of these are the biggest YouTube
creators on the planet but man I'm blown away by the people that come up to you
like Seriously, like, you've come to my hometown and you're like, the celebrity.
I thought Matt, with Matt's off -road recovery is like the celebrity, right? But you
come walking into town and like everybody goes, well, first off, we went for pizza
right next to Walmart.
But it's like multi -generational. It's just not the kids. I mean, you have their
parents and grandparents that's watching too. Yeah, because for a lot of younger
people, I'm kind of like their bigger bigger brother on YouTube into a lot of the
parents of those kids it feels like I'm part of their family I've had a lot of
people tell me that I feel like I'm part of their family because they're spending
hours a week with me and that's just like you would a normal family like you're
spending a lot of time and time is what really builds trust I love that love that
so in closing if there's one bit of advice that you could give creators to motivate
them? What would that be? I would say that every person or every view is a real
person, and I guess just really think that that's a real person and treat them like
that. And that you don't know that real, I mean,
they're not just a view. They're like a real person, living a real life. They could
be doing good. They could be doing bad, but I don't know. You just got to love
them the best you can. even through a video, even through a camera, you just got
to love them the best you can. He was like so into them and it was so naturally
there that he just cared about that one person and knows that he's, they're just
looking for a friend and he wants to be their friend. And that's that sense of
connection and belonging, but realistically, his vision is more about transcending the
world where they don't feel alone And so he's really motivated to do a lot. So
knowing all the human motivations and what we're doing here and there really leads
to YouTube. So when we're creating YouTube content, what we're trying to do is bring
value to the viewer. Okay, I'm going to say that again. Value to the viewer.
Okay, it's not about the content. It's about the value to the viewer. So when
you're creating content, I want you to really understand, what is the value that
we're going to bring the viewer? If there is no value, we shouldn't make it. Or we
should go back to the drawing board and go through the process of bringing value.
Now, there's several different ways to bring value. In fact, we have a whole section
on how to really elevate your content and understand the value that you're going to
bring. But when someone receives value, the first thing that we got to do as humans
is we got to share with people. And when we share, we think of other people that
would actually be like -minded and would find this valuable. And when they actually
consume it and they see it, they're going to share it with other people too. And
it creates this feedback loop where people are impacted by your content. They share
it with others. And then they're impacted by the content. And then they share it
with others. And it's this infinite loop that goes from there. Now, the great thing
about it is when people share something that they have value in, they find the
right type of viewer for you. Like, if you really look at it, it's only the people
that you really care about around that specific thing. So for me, I love Star Wars.
I'm obsessed with Star Wars, and we're talking the original trilogy and the prequels.
I like those too. But if there's ever a meme, nine times out of ten,
it's only going to my daughter. Like, I'm being serious. like I only send it to my
daughter. If it's a meme more general, I send it to the family group chat with all
my, all my boys. And if there's a TikTok that really connects with me, I have a
tendency to share it with the person that they would actually find the same value
in it as me. And so that is what we call the human feedback loop. Now, when this
happens, when this happens naturally and you're actually creating content that has
you, guess what this does? This gives the YouTube understanding of who you're making
content for. And we're going to talk about that in the algorithm section of really
understanding how YouTube actually works. But this is the human feedback loop.
And it all comes back down to how do we motivate someone to know what value is?
And so we've got to know them well enough and what they find valuable. And they're
going to click on it, they're going to consume it, they're going to share it,
they're going to engage with it, and they want to go deeper. Now, for me, I've got
to tell you, I just love YouTube, but I also love entrepreneurship. And a lot of
you here are trying to learn and grow on YouTube to leverage it to build businesses
or to support businesses or to bring in leads. Same thing. At the end of the day,
if you're having someone and you're actually have a value position and it is so
well done, guess what happens? They share it with other people and then ultimately
it creates a feedback loop. Now, I want to say this. There are a few of you right
now. The reason why you join Channel Jumpstart is because someone says, oh man,
you've got to do Channel Jumpstart. I've had so much value and you heard it and
you got more in -depth in it and you might have heard two or three people tell
you. And before you know it, you were applying to be a part of channel jumpseller.
That's why you're here. And so ultimately, we're here to help you succeed. And it's
all about understanding people. It's all about understanding humans. But it's like,
what motivates them to click? What motivates them to watch? What motivates them to
watch longer and more? And what motivates them to get to the end of the video and
then start binge watching? And then the biggest compliment, which is what motivates
them to comment and also share? Now, this doesn't really trigger, the commenting
doesn't really trigger the algorithm to get more views, but it triggers them to
connect with you when you start to understand the psychology of what people are
looking for and that voice that they want to have and that validation that they
want to be a part of and that sense of belonging. And that's what it's all about
here. And that's where I get really excited about Channel Jump Start is because I'm
going to share you with the system that's going to really help you understand these
things at a very granular level and then make the right type of decisions to really
impact the world.

PT4

Hey, Jumpstarters, let's jump right in and learn the Channel Jumpstart system. Now, I
can tell you that the epicenter of everything about Channel Jumpstar is the viewer.
The viewer is the most important. Without viewers, we're never going to succeed.
Okay. And You know, us as content creators, we need to bring value to the viewers.
And as we bring value to the viewers, consistently, that's when, you know, the human
feedback loop is going to happen where they're going to engage with a piece of
content, find value in it. They're going to share it with people. They're going to
engage with it. They're going to want to go deeper. So not only are we going to
get them to be motivated to click, we're going to motivate them to watch and watch
deeper and to binge watch. That's kind of what it's all about here in the channel
jumpstart system. So the channel jumpstart system is to plan, execute on that plan,
analyze, did it work, did it not work, what went well, and then adjust. And as we
do that, we're going to have a lot more clarity of what to create for our viewer.
Because remember, it's all about the viewer. We need to bring them value and we
need to be able to take assessments of what work, what doesn't work, and really
hone in on the intentionality that we need to as content creators or the bringers
of the value. Now, the best way to explain this plan, execute, analyze, and adjust
is look at it through the lens of success. I've used this same thing in every
aspect of my life. You know, when it comes to spirituality or relationships or
personal goals, this is what I look at is I have a plan, I execute on that plan,
I analyze, what do I do right? What I do wrong? And I adjust until I get what
I'm hoping to achieve. So let me give you the best business case study that I
possibly can of some company using the success feedback loop to really understand
what's going on and to improve. In fact, if they failed at this, if they didn't
actually use the feedback loop, we wouldn't be here. And what am I talking about?
YouTube. That's right. YouTube. Because did you know that these guys right here,
Steve, Chad, and Jowad, they actually wanted to create the most amazing website in
the world and ultimately started back in 2005 and it was something that they really
had a plan for. They were just working at PayPal at the time and in their off
hours. They were just saying, hey, let's work on this project together. Let's make
something special. Let's kind of build something. And and what they were building was
gonna revolutionize the world, and it was a dating website. That's right, you heard
me right. YouTube started as a dating website. And if you look, here is the first
screen grab that you can get what YouTube was back in February of 2005,
and it was launched on Valentine's Day. I'm a male seeking females between 18 and
45. Okay, you got that? Now think about this for a second. They actually had the
plan, and they started to execute on the plan, So they've been
what he's saying. Okay, I get it that he just graduated college and, you know, he's
thinking about this and they're thinking about dating and maybe they're little, you
know, horny, I guess. And when you do it, I mean, listen to the video again. Like,
seriously, listen to it. Really, really long.
Like, it just kind of blows my mind. Now, that being said, they still had a plan.
They executed on that plan. And now they're like, hey, we need to get people to
YouTube, upload their videos, and what they want is to get girls to do that. So
the first thing they did is share it with the people that would be into what they
want, which is other guys wanting to see girls and dating and so on. So their
colleagues and friends in their circle and their friend circle, that's what they had.
This is actually an email from Jad to his friends on April 25th. This is just
right after he uploaded his video. It says, well, guys, we just launched this site.
YouTube .com. Can you help us spread the word? Since we just launched, there's no
girls on it yet. Okay. All right. Dating website, here's the email.
Can you guys upload your own videos? Let us know what you think. Okay, so here
they had a really big task, right? They launched the website. They're trying to get
a lot of visibility. The first thing we'd normally do is share people that would
like it with people that are our friends, and they're going to go over to YouTube
.com and check it out, right? And ultimately, they started to see things differently.
And this is where I really love it. This is an actual quote from one of the co
-founders. We didn't have any videos, realizing videos of anything would be better
than no videos. I populated our new dating site with videos of 747s taking off and
landing. So he's putting videos of airplanes taking off and landing. That's
interesting. The whole thing didn't make any sense. We were actually so desperate for
some dating videos, whatever that means. So we turned to the website that any
desperate person would turn to, which is Craigslist. Okay. So they're like basically
saying, do you know what? We need videos. And so we're going to go to Craigslist.
We're going to put it on an ad. And we're going to pay people up to $100, $100
for a woman to upload a video to YouTube. Do you know how many people uploaded a
video to YouTube? Zero, zero, that's right. And what was really frustrating is they
were seeing all the time, energy, and effort they were putting into this, all the
wee hours of the night, pulling all -nighters to get something ready, and the only
videos that they actually could get up there was the videos that they were
uploading, and a few of their friends would upload videos of their cat, snowboarding
adventures, and so on. They had other videos of, you know, airplanes and just
different things that they'd capture, and no one was using it as a dating site. But
here's kind of some behind the scenes of YouTube that you probably haven't seen.
Quite frustrating. The site had not really taken off, and here we are discussing the
situation in the garage. I think videos are just is large.
I mean, yeah. Well, I was getting pretty depressed, like, towards the end of last
week. And I was like, dude, we have like, maybe 40, 50, 60 videos on the site.
But I'm not, it's like, I'm thinking, okay, so if I'm actually a user of this
site, I would like, I would like, I would go on to like four videos because
there's just not that many videos I want to watch. Like videos like this.
Yeah, you can't put this up. I'm not going to put this up.
This is lame.
So we were pretty desperate at this stage, and we were trying to come up with ways
to get more videos and more users. And of course, if you get girls on the site,
that's the best way. Okay, so there's a couple things that happen in that footage
that they said, Steve said, you know, we need to focus in on the users. How are
the users using this? Now, this is where the success feedback loop works,
right? So you have a plan, you execute on the plan, you start analyzing your data.
They had 45 videos. People weren't using what it was intended to. And ultimately,
what you don't want to do is force your will. What you want to do is see what's
going on, right? You've got to be able to process this. So from that decision, they
said, well, what are the users using for it? Because they're putting out videos and
dumb videos like this and then everyone laughs, of course. But I want you to
understand. They're really reflecting on, ooh, okay, human nature is doing one thing.
Human emotions do another, but they're starting to connect and use it in a certain
way. Because at that time, it wasn't very easy to actually upload video content. In
fact, there was a lot of people that didn't have digital anything. And so it was
like, okay, they had to digitize and upload is a very awkward thing. And so all
they were trying to do is find out what happened. And as they're analyzing in their
garage, they realize, ooh, we need to change a few things. We need to be able to
go through a few things to improve. And this is where they started to really break
it down. They were like looking at the user feedback loop, and they're like, okay,
the user's going through it. They're using this, but only 45 people upload them. And
if you really look at the 45, there's only like four of us that was actually
uploading any videos. And so it's really not taking off. People are not using it as
intended. And so we need to be able to do this differently. And they were really
getting granular. What was working? What didn't work? Why it wasn't working? And at
the end of the day, it's all about noticing these patterns of what's going on.
And that's all we're trying to do. We're trying to take our hat off as a person
that's executing on the plan. And we're trying to say, okay, how's it being
received? And we're also looking at it through the user's view or the viewer's view,
right? So they had a desire to create a dating site. They actually put it out
there in the world. They try to motivate people with money and certain things to
use it. No one was using it. So as they analyzed what was going on, they said,
you know what, for us to improve, the things that we need to do, for us to try
to do it is understand who's using it and why they're using it, and then also
employ other things to encourage that. So this is where Javad actually goes through
his revamp of what happened in June of 2005. So by June,
we were like, all right, this is it. We're going to do a complete revamp because
this is obviously not working. So we really changed the concept of the site. First
of all, we added this related videos window that you now see, and this just
encourages people to watch more and more videos. So if we get them to the site
once, watching one video, and if we can find something that's related, chances are
they'll just continue watching. We also made it easier to share videos with all your
friends. So rather than us spamming everyone, we actually left the spamming up to
our users because they would just enter email addresses of their friends, and they
would just click one button, 100 emails went out, and all those people would come
back, so that worked really well. And then we also added more social networking
features that encouraged user interaction. So The idea was if people spend more time
on the site, talking to other users, finding out what other users' favorites are,
and things like that, then they'll just end up watching more and they'll also end
up sharing more and bringing in even more users. I think one of the most important
innovations at this stage was this external video player, which is really very
simple. We have a HTML snippet next to each video and if you just copy it and
paste it onto your own website, then basically you have a YouTube video player on
your website.
And that was pretty cool because prior to that it was really hard to put a video
on your own website. So this allowed anyone, this basically allowed people to be on
YouTube, even if they weren't on YouTube .com. And it extended the reach to sites
such as MySpace. And actually this feature became extremely popular on MySpace. And I
think that's one of the many reasons that we took off so quickly back then. So
basically they had a plan, they executed on the plan, they analyzed, well, this
didn't work, this worked, and what do we need to become? Because the user's not
using it for what's intended. And they didn't say, okay, I'm going to force my
will, I'm going to make this happen, it's going to be a dating site. They says,
no, people are using it naturally. It's not a lot, but maybe if we change the
focus of it we can actually get more users on and at the end of the day that's
all we care about right so the analyze and they adjust it so the adjustment period
was in June of 2005 and he explained exactly what he did you know he made it very
easy for people to consume it but also to share it if you notice that he said you
can hit the share button and it would email up to 100 people 100 people on that
video that they can come back to the site so people would get an email and that's
back in the day where hey we don't want to spam them but if we have our users
spam them you know they can spam the people that they're into that specific video
that's when it's going to grow big time so they're actually creating another feedback
loop right so people go get a video uh they watch it they hit the share button
share up to 100 people uh people receive an email uh they click on it they go to
the website then they go and do that again over and over again. And so you start
seeing the user base starting and go way up. Now, if you look at the homepage of
YouTube back in June, it's the video repository. So basically, they changed it from
a dating site to your video repository. So they upload all your videos here, right?
And ultimately, as videos are being consumed, you're going to share with others, and
it's going to create more users. And as they're more users, they have to set up an
account. It's going to create this snowball effect because of this success feedback
loop. So this is always important. You always want to analyze. You always want to
break it down. You always want to ask questions. I love it where they had a
debrief. That debrief process is so important in Channel Jumpstart. Now, before we
go, I want to let you know as you do this, as this becomes a part of your
culture, as it becomes a part of your day, you're going to have plans, you're going
to execute on those plans, and then you're going to analyze once you executed on
them, what worked? You're going to do your debrief. That's going to always lead to
the right questions, and the right questions is to ask why questions. Why did this
do this? Why did this do that? Why did that do that? Now, when they actually saw
it really take off was between July and August, and this is where YouTube became
something different. Even different than what they intended back in June, it really
changed their focus and it had everything to do with this. So by August 2005,
I think this is when we first knew we were really catching on. And I think, yeah,
when we were posted on Slashdot, that was definitely pretty cool because it brought
in a lot of traffic. And it never really dipped below this traffic level after,
after the spike from Slashdot. And back then people were describing us as the
flicker of video, which back then was a pretty decent way to describe the product.
And so we were kind of trying to understand, we were like reasoning through our
growth and trying to understand why we were growing so quickly. And one thing I
remember is initially we were getting just a few hundred video uploads per day. And
but every two weeks, there would be one video clip, which would be a totally random
clip, that just went through the roof. And it would be so popular, they would just
dwarf all the other video clips. And this happened maybe every two weeks initially.
But the thing is that the rate of video uploads was increasing. So we were getting
first 50 videos per day, then 60, 70, and so we were reasoning, well, if we get
more videos per day and the probability that a video is like a super hit is, you
know, fairly constant and can't really be affected, well then eventually the
probability that we get a really big hit just keeps going up. And that's actually
exactly what happened. The time period between these sort of really viral videos
decreased to the point where now actually every day there are many, many such clips
on the site. And One thing that we didn't,
one thing that we couldn't really predict that kind of surprised us was this sort
of, the way the community drove the site. Now, we had predicted that the community
would be the core part of this website. But we hadn't anticipated the ways in which
they would use the website. For example, what they would do is someone would post a
video discussing something or doing something. And then all these other users would
reply to that video. They'd be like, oh, yeah, I saw your video. And I think what
you said is totally lame or really cool or whatever. And so they created this
concept of video responses. So what we did is to react. We basically created a
product called video responses so that people could more easily understand the
connection between videos and this is just a random example I pulled up and actually
could we switch to Firefox that's currently running that has this video yeah we're
actually getting ready to do an experiment for you Mentos Diet Coke you know that
whole thing well we've got a new twist on it and we're gonna see actually what
happens if if I personally get involved. This Dave. Okay,
I'm going to tear into some of these Mentos
and wonder what will happen. If you put the Mentos in your mouth and they'll start
eating them, they think something's going to get sick. I think nothing's going to
happen at all
that I'm just going to pull them out, drink a little Diet Coke, No warning on a
label or anything. Don't see what happens.
Dave Hope Guy projectile vomit for you. I guarantee you he's gonna vomit.
I'm not gonna vomit. Well,
here we go.
Here, God.
I'm not good for it. Something's wrong. Uh -oh. I don't know. I just feel like
really weird. I can't move. You want me to turn it off? It's like my legs are
numb or something. I'm thinking feeling better. I'm feeling okay. I'm feeling okay.
Um,
all right. I think, um, I think this is, um...
So this is where they, they started to revamp. And So they revamped in June, they
revamped in August, and then they became what they are and what they're not. So
they are now a video sharing site where you can broadcast yourself. You know, so
they actually brought a tagline and broadcast yourself. It's very, that messaging is
clear. And ultimately, they had the process and system to be able to create
motivating factors for humans to share their videos and then also to watch the
videos. And then they noticed and analyzed that there's some data coming in where
people were using it differently. And so they made tools to make it easier for them
to create content. And that's where this feedback loop led. So because they used the
success feedback loop, we're here today. And my thing is, is this is all about the
process that I want you to go through to have success on YouTube. Okay. We're going
to learn from what they did to bring YouTube to us, which is understanding people
and how they are engaging with the value that you have. And what we're going to do
is analyze that in a way of what worked, what didn't work. And then two, we won't
be so married to what we're trying to do, but we're seeing, okay, why do they
respond this way? Why do they do that? We're going to really ask the why questions
and then ultimately respond to adjusting and then creating a new plan where we're
able to see success. So for longevity, as a business, we always need to pivot.
We always need to grow. We always need to understand. And the best way to do that
is using the channel jumpstart system.

PT5

Hey, everybody. Welcome to this amazing section to live training with Daryl.
He'll be jumping on in a second. Jackson will be here in just a second. It's going
to be amazing. I hope you guys are all excited. But first things first, I'm seeing
this quite a bit on the chat. Don't forget everyone to change from a host and
panelists to everyone. So I saw quite a bit of people there.
I'm calling you out. Chris Lee. Don't be shy. Changed it over because it was like,
good evening. Ha ha, ha. We're doing this. You're on vacation. Nick. Yeah,
there's quite a few of you. So make sure we switch over from host and panelists to
everyone.
accomplish who you are as a person and a content creator, really understanding the
value that you bring and how you are unique. Just like we had in our live Q &A
last week, some of the questions. Well, with all the competition, the niche and
stuff like that, and Darrell's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, there's no competition.
We're all unique people. And we all bring our perspective in how we've been raised,
how we've grown up, our interests, all that stuff. And that's what's really important
in any
The next part, and it's extremely important, is the viewer. Who are they?
Who are they? Just as much as about you, it's who are they? Because there's a
relationship there in creating content that they want to come watch and be a part
of it. It's bigger than just sitting and watching TV and watching a movie where
they are just, they are on the outside watching in to observe. They're actually
engaged with you they're part of the community so who are they what are they doing
the avatar like amazing two amazing things that happened in the the train i hope
you guys caught and i'm going to start off with the first one darrell had an
incredible conversation with kendall gray uh and in that conversation um in that let
me do one thing really quick. In that conversation, Kendall said, you know what?
Every view is a person. And not only are they a person, but they might be
struggling with something. And they just need a friend. And they're coming on and
watching that and hanging out with you. And we're friends. That was extremely
powerful. So you look at it that way of making an impact. Gosh, I'm going to,
I'm going to read something like a comment I saw that was just so impactful on
this one. And I, I hope all of you understand why, why we're spending time on this
section two of understanding. I'm going to get to the trifecta. I'm going to get to
it. But like these conversations and why the,
the, the, the, the, the, the viewer so important. Here's what a person said on a
YouTube video on on, on Saturday. Sorry for your loss. This hits home.
I am now 64. I had been out of the United States Air Force for less than two
years and my dad passed at 63 -2. While we weren't estranged,
we had become somewhat distant due to my drinking back then. Decades later, I still
miss him. The love was always there. Yes, I have regrets, but great memories too.
And we had great conversations. I have always looked up to him as he was a man of
good standards. Mom passed during the pandemic. Miss, miss her too.
I will be forever grateful that as an adult, my mom and I were close. I was able
to help her understand why dad was like he was. And with the internet, I was able
to tell his World War II story more fully, and it gave her great comfort. I think
it's human nature that sons and dads don't always get along. I have two sons, one
I'm estranged from, and one that I have a great relationship, all the best to you.
Then this other one, I'm sitting here on the fence, on a fence right now, whether
or not I should drive four hours to meet up with my dad and brother and cousin
and uncles to spread my recently deceased uncle's ashes at our family homestead. I've
got a few justifiable reasons to not go watching your video it popped up in my in
my feed for important reasons put the reasons why i should go into the forefront of
my heart and mind my dad is 80 this year i won't get many more of these
opportunities to be with him on the homestead thank you for your honesty and your
heartfelt video it was all the encouragement i needed
Guys,
you have the opportunity to make a difference in viewers in people's lives when it
comes to group coaching, businesses,
entertainment, things like that. And that right there is so incredible that that's
why we say, who are you, who is the viewer? Because you can make an impact on
individuals and grow that way. And then the third part that we're going to be
getting into on the second part of section two is then leveraging YouTube because
YouTube is your partner in this to help you find those viewers that are in need of
your message. YouTube wants to help. It's beneficial for YouTube. So we're going to
be going through this stuff. I hope that you I see this opportunity as an
incredible opportunity to connect with viewers, connect with community and grow that.
Jackson, it's so great to see you on here. I was going to say, it's almost like
everything's focused around the viewer. And then I have to apologize.
As you can see, I am home. Justin was over in my house way late last night
because speaking of change of people's lives, he came over and brought me cookies.
It was so nice of him because my wife is about to pop.
him probably eight different people recognize him ranging from the age of six -year
-old kid with a mullet to a 45 -year -old man shopping for kids like everything in
between and they all reacted the same way that's the funniest thing is the six -year
-old kid reacted the same way as the 45 -year -old man Because Kendall knows how to
connect with that audience. And I think that's the most crucial thing is when they
can actually connect on that level. And so, Justin, you're absolutely right. It's
been the coolest thing to see is so many of our students learning and having that
aha moment of like, oh, wait, I'm actually creating content for a real human being,
not just someone I thought was out. Like, this is a legitimately real person who is
wanting exactly what I can give them. And I think that's the coolest thing by far.
Oh, yeah, exactly. It's not about tricking the algorithm for views. It's about the
person. So that takes me to that next point. Like, yeah, so we have the Kendall
Gray. And then we had the incredible talk with Hope, Hope, scope, and how she broke
down her avatar, her viewer. She gave her a name. She talked about her personal
wants and buyers and all that stuff. And then when I was watching it, this was
pretty cool, but I was watching that talk, I was like, this sounds just like my
oldest girl, who's 12, and then my eight -year -old girl, not, or my nine -year -old
girl, but not the 10 -year -old. So what I did, I did an experiment, and I put on
a Hope Scopes video of her trying on, it was like makeup from the 50s all the way
up until now and the differences between them and stuff. And I sat, I sat all the
girls there on the computer press play. And my 9 year old and 12 year old for the
35 minutes were locked in. oh my God. And they're giggling. When Hope was putting
on this like 1970s makeup, they're like, oh my gosh, no, because Hope brought up
like, ooh, like it's got some stuff in it that could really mess up my skin and
they're like and then my 10 year old walks up and she looks at it. She's like,
interesting. Nah, I'm out because she's she's more of a tomboy and stuff and I'm
like, I knew it. And so now I've got these two girls that are completely infatuated
with Hope's content and they watch it and they love it because they're way into
fashion and makeup and that's all they ask for for Christmas and their birthdays is
they just want to dress up. And it's so cool that way to see that, that impact.
So it's going from Kendall of understanding that, like, hey, that view is more than
just a view and tricking the algorithm. It's a person. And then to hope identifying
that person and what happens there. So awesome. Jackson, I see that. Daryl just
shared something on the screen. Do you got anything else you want share before
Darrell. Daryl jumps in, takes over. Just listen to what Daryl says. If there's
anyone who knows that connect with an audience, it's the man he's done it over and
over and over again. So I'm super excited to see what Daryl's about to just drum.
Yeah, me too. Awesome. So there we go. Let's get going.
Daryl, when you're ready, jump on in. Okay.
So, oops, I think I'm on the wrong mic. Am I on the wrong mic? Sounds like it.
Yeah, crap. Hello, there we go. Better mic. Does that sound good? Yes.
Okay. Let me just double check. Yep, okay. All right, so today we're going to be
talking about the YouTube algorithm. I'm actually going to share things a little bit
differently than I've done before in the past to give you clarity on what YouTube's
really about. Because I think at the end of the day, we focus as creators on the
things that we find important. And what we find the most important is the content
we're creating. And I want to just kind of shift your mindset on how YouTube really
works and really how to grow and succeed, regardless of you're starting out brand
new, or if you've been plateaued for a little while. I've been doing it for 10
years, 15 years. It's going to be all about this. Okay. So for me, YouTube is
really important to understand the mechanics just because it hasn't really changed in
a very long time. Almost 10 years. It hasn't really changed. Well, I guess it's
been over 10 years. And so I want to kind of break that down. Now with this,
YouTube started in 2005, and as you found out, through the videos that we were
sharing, it started as a dating website, and they used the analysis to realize no
one was actually doing it. It's a much more difficult to get women to actually
upload videos that's kind of their personality profiles. And so as they discovered
who they are and what they're not, they kind of weighed in and created an
opportunity for a video sharing website to happen, and it was able to start shifting
where people could broadcast themselves and really start leveraging them. But the
biggest change was in 2006, and 2006 was when they started to really look at how
do we present videos specifically for the viewer. So they were looking at the viewer
and they're trying to do it because it was kind of like, oh, we need people to
upload videos and then we need people to share the videos and engage with it. We
need to get more users to be on the website. So that was the thing that they were
looking at. And then ultimately, the biggest shift, and I will say the channel
jumpstart system was in 2012 is when that was starting to develop because they went
away from the view -based algorithm to an AI. And so the AI was controlling an
experiment. They didn't experiment in 2012. They thought that they were going to lose
their job because it just wasn't working and they were losing views, but then it
just popped off and it was far surpassed anything they could never imagine and
actually got more views on videos they didn't even think about just because the AI
was able to do what the AI does, which is take unstructured data, it's structured
in a way, and test it because it's always testing, always trying to understand and
analyze, and go from there. So YouTube's an AI -based algorithm since 2012.
Now, 2013 is where everything changed because they went away from the view -based
algorithm, their test succeeded, and in 2013, they rolled it out at the end of 2012
and in 2013. So pretty much the AI controls all of YouTube.
And so that is something that is notable. And I can tell you that I probably got
a billion views, just dumb luck, just dumb luck, just not, No strategy,
no nothing. But the reality is I was able to actually get over 110 billion video
views by following the structure that I'm teaching you by understanding how YouTube
operates and what they actually look for. So when we discuss this, it is still
relevant today. It has not changed at all. It's just getting smarter.
And then two, it's got deeper, deeper understanding.
Like, this has been the core goals of the AI. So it just has two core goals,
which is to predict what the viewer wants to watch, okay, predict what the viewer
wants to watch, and then also maximize the long -term viewer's engagement and
satisfaction. So they basically want to give the viewer the opportunity to click on
something that they know that they'll click on. And if the satisfaction is so high,
they're going to, they're going to keep on watching videos and keep on engaging. And
so the longer that they stay on the platform, the more money they make. Okay. And
so from YouTube perspective, if the viewer has a great experience and they're just
getting videos that they didn't know they needed to watch, they watch it, and
they're engaging with it and they're binge watching, their YouTube's going to make
more money. And at the end of the day, that's what it's all about, is YouTube
making more money. Now, I think a lot of you would say, oh, well, then that's only
on ad specific traffic or the videos that actually have ads on it.
Well, no, that's not necessarily the case. Like, YouTube is not only going to
recommend videos that just have ads on it. It doesn't even look at that at all as
a factor. All they care about is making sure the viewer has an amazing experience
and on the platform and having them come back day after day and watching multiple
videos. That's what they want. So I want to be clear, there is no goal for
creators. I want to say that twice. There is no goal for creators.
The AI doesn't care how many videos you upload. They don't care if you uploaded 10
,000 videos. They don't care if you uploaded one video. YouTube does not look at the
creator in specific. Doesn't matter. Okay, doesn't matter. It doesn't matter the
relevance of a video when it was released. It doesn't look at creators that just
didn't post for 10 years and then released a video. They don't look at anything
from the creator's lens. They only focus in on the viewer lens, okay? Just viewer.
So moving
pulls videos for viewers. This is from Todd Bupre, who's the senior project manager
for pretty much the algorithm, okay, the growth and discovery team. And ultimately,
this is the best quote that I've ever found of what the algorithm is. Okay, does
not push videos for creators. It polls videos or viewers. Now,
that being said, we need to have the lens and really understand that the YouTube
algorithm, I don't ever want to have you say the YouTube algorithm does this, the
YouTube algorithm does that. We're going to cross out the word algorithm, and we're
going to talk about the YouTube viewer. So moving forward, anytime that we talk
about the algorithm, we're going to say the YouTube viewer. And the reason why is
because all YouTube cares about is the viewer. It has the two goals, and it looks
very specifically at the viewer. Now, that being said, guys, your biggest mistake is
not considering the viewer to the deep detail that we're going to teach you in the
channel jumpstart system. And in the moment of clarity, when you understand who
you're creating content for and their whole, you know, psychological demographic
breakdown and what they do online, offline, it's going to give you clarity of how
to bring value. And we're going to really deep dive into this from an algorithmic
perspective or how YouTube actually works. Okay. So YouTube's about the viewer. I'm
here to tell you there's no other platform outside of TikTok that cares enough about
the viewer. And they do it in different ways, but I'm telling you, talk and YouTube
does it very specifically, and they're really, really good at bringing the right type
of content to the viewer in ways that you can't imagine. So let's scratch out
YouTube algorithm and also make sure that we have the YouTube viewer. Okay, now
moving on. So what does YouTube's algorithm AI look for? Well,
it's just gathering data on viewer behavior, okay? And that's what it does.
It's just, it's looking, how can we understand the viewer better and give the
details on this? Now, when this is, when this is really approached at the level of
an understanding, you can anticipate viewership. And that's what we're going to break
into, and that's what we're going to do. Okay. So when we go to it, the YouTube
YouTube AI follows the viewer and is looking for patterns of satisfaction.
And the satisfaction is something that we really need to understand because once we
understand it and it becomes predictable for us, then it's easier to really give
YouTube what it's looking for, which is viewers really like the content. And we're
focusing on the signals that YouTube cares about and not focusing all our energy and
time on things that they don't even care about. Okay. And so what we need to do
is understand behavior. So when we understand the viewer, we understand the viewer's
behavior, then it gives us a more predictable way to be consistently hitting the
right type of viewer. And when we break this down from this perspective, we need to
understand that we sometimes lump everything as one group.
And we're not going to do that in Channel Jump Start. We can't do that in Channel
Jump Start. We can't, we have to have distinct understanding of how YouTube looks at
it. And I'm going to show you exactly what they do. It's not rocket science here,
guys. Once you understand it, once you see it, then you're like, oh my gosh, this
is the moment of clarity that I need of how to consistently bring value to the
viewer. And all it comes back down to is looking at behavior.
satisfaction patterns, and we're going to go way in depth on that, but they also do
it on behavior patterns. So behavior and satisfaction could be lumped together in one
thing, but the reality is, is we need to look at more of the things that they do
on YouTube, but also what they don't do. And so when you understand that,
then you're actually having a better understanding of who's watching what and why.
And so when we look at viewer patterns, it comes back down to this.
Okay. It comes back down to what does the viewer watch? What don't they watch?
So when they have options and your video is next to somebody else's video and they
click on somebody else's video, that is a pattern that YouTube's looking at. Okay.
And then, too, you know, regardless of what that is, YouTube wants to understand
with clarity what is actually happening. Now, that's why packaging is really important
to get the right type of title and thumbnail. We're going to get into that in
Section 3. But the reality is, is as understanding YouTube's just as watching what
they want to click on, but just as much attention is what they don't click on.
Okay. Why? Why is that? because they're trying to produce.
Okay. How much time do they spend watching? Do they watch for five seconds? Do they
watch for five minutes? Do they watch for eight minutes? Do you watch for 12
minutes? Well, there might be some links to the videos and things that you're
actually getting your mind in. But the AI just wants to see, oh, do you know,
this is a really great video. And they spend a little bit more time on this. Now,
This is a big mistake that a lot of you make because you just take it at this. I
can tell you, I watch the Discord, I watch the forums, I'm on X, I see people
conversation, they're like, oh, what's a good ABD? Because that's what you're thinking
about how they watch, how much time they spend watching. I'm here to tell you, I
don't look at it that way, ever, ever. I do not care about ABD,
Okay, not the way that creators care about it because AVD is a perspective that you
need to understand a little bit deeper. Why? Why is this? It's because when you
understand where they're watching and how they're watching, it will give you clarity
of why the AVD is different. And then two, once you understand what YouTube's
looking at, you can better predict, oh, well, that's not a bad video. and the AVD
might not be high on this this way, but this other.
gave it a thumbs up and made a comment, that is a satisfaction signal that someone
was engaged with it. But it could be, you know, the length of the comment or it
could be the thread of the comment. How many people commented on the comment? Are
they bringing value to the video? This is a type of things that YouTube is breaking
down and analyzing. Now, is it a high percentage, a low percentage? It doesn't
matter what YouTube's looking at is someone found the video valuable enough to watch
it for a specific length on a specific device and to make a comment.
And so they're looking at it, oh, you know, the comments do have a factor, but
it's not a discovery factor. Like, you could have as many comments as you possibly
could if people are only watching it for five seconds. YouTube that says, oh, okay,
There's something fishy going on here. Let's suppress this. Now, this one is
something that the AI is looking for consistently. What the viewer does next,
okay? What do they do next? And the reason why is because if they are clicking in
an end screen, if they're clicking in a pin comment, if they're clicking on the
next related video in suggestion, they want to understand the viewership patterns.
And we lock into this, guys, in Section 8, we literally talk about how to really
understand your content well enough that you're getting the consistency of getting the
right type of viewership based on viewing patterns. So views is where it all starts
with the viewer. and we'll actually understand how to deliver the right type of
value to the viewer consistently that it is going through the viewing patterns that
YouTube really cares about of what they actually do next. Now, there are some
surveys, like people might say they're not interested, and that is the best way to
clean up your YouTube viewing experience is when you start using that. Say,
I'm not interested in this type of video. And then, too, there's surveys that
actually happened to after a video plays. Did this hit? Did it not hit? The more
that you fill that out, the more personalized, a curated experience that you get.
Because the more data that you give YouTube, the better content you're going to see.
And when you start flagging or saying, This is super important.
Now, some of you might say, hey, I get a ton of these surveys. Well, my question
is, do you fill them out? Because if you fill them out, if you're more apt to
fill it out, YouTube's going to give you more. If you don't fill it out, it's
going to have a pattern of, okay, they'll never fill out a survey, so let's not
even give it to them at all. Okay. Now, that being said, they're also looking at
your behavior when they come back and watch and watch again. And then, too, that
doesn't make it an amazing video, but it might be an interruption in their viewing
experience. You know, they might drop off. The phone call might hit. Something might
be happening. So they're looking at all these patterns very specifically. This one is
probably one of the more underutilized one that creators really don't understand.
But There are people like me that love to hit the save and watch later button.
I like to hit save. I like to hit download. I like to give that type of viewer
behavior because YouTube knows very specifically, very specifically how I'm going to
watch that. If I hit that save button, YouTube knows exactly where I'm going to
watch it. And I'm going to talk about that here in a second. Okay. Now, coming
back, there are people that come back and finish it watching so they might start
the video and then come back later to do it, you know, and they might watch like
five minutes of it and then come back on a different device and watch it
differently. Okay. So as we understand this, this is where we're always going to be
talking about the viewer and we're going to be talking about feedback loops. And
this is where we discussed earlier in a training about the viewer feedback loop.
When someone watches a video and they engaged with that video, they're going to be
tracked, okay? YouTube's tracking them because based on that interaction or the lack
thereof, YouTube's going to make a decision of what to serve next.
And when they serve next, based on how you engage with that, that's when it goes
back through that feedback loop. So the more that you give it data of what you do,
what you don't do, YouTube's know exactly how to manipulate and give you the
specific ways to discover content. Now, I want to make this quite clear. Every
viewer has a different pattern. That's why it's all about the viewer because the way
that YouTube serves me content is different the way that YouTube serves you content.
And it's based on how we engage with it. Now, there might be some similarities.
There might be some crossovers. And that's where YouTube starts to come in. And
we'll go into that a lot deeper. Okay. Okay. This is where I need all of you to
not be overwhelmed because you might have been doing YouTube wrong.
And you might be analyzing YouTube wrong. There's a reason why you're here. Okay.
This is the granularity of channel jumpstart is we care. The epicenter of channel
jumpster is about the viewer. And we care so much to have a good understanding of
who we're making content for and how to bring them value. And believe it or not,
it's all about making an understanding an avatar of who they are, but then
understanding where they're at in their day when they're watching the content. So it
comes back down to two things, two things that I look at, and you'll see this over
and over and over again, which is device type and traffic source, device type and
traffic source. So let's kind of break down device type. The type of devices that
YouTube tracks is the computer, the mobile, tablet, TV,
and gaming consoles. Okay, so that, that's the device type. Now, I want you to
understand that a lot of people don't really dig into this.
A lot of creators, they just kind of lump everything as the whole, okay? And that
is a big mistake, because you can understand where people are at by understand,
and the type of experience they want on YouTube, by understanding where they're
watching it, or
of what they do next. Now, let me just give you a perfect example. I had a jump
starter that came through, and they never really focused in on where they were
watching, and they didn't realize that they were watching it when they were getting
ready for work. Okay, so they'd bring their mobile device, put it in the bathroom,
and as that creator was getting ready for the day, they were getting ready for the
day. And so it created a moment because we could see based on when they were
watching, the time they were watching, and what they were watching on, the mobile
device, we had that assumption and ultimately that goes a lot more in depth on
that. Now, some of you might say, well, I understand computer, I understand mobile,
I understand tablet, I understand TV, but how does game consoles work? Well, game
consoles have their own apps and then they watch it like that. So it's more like
treat it, treat it like game consoles and this would be also Apple TV and others.
So it would be in that rung. But keep in mind, there's a lot of a lot of things
that happen there too that we can get a lot more in depth on. So you've got to
understand that might be a younger age, you know, whatever, whatever it may be. They
might not have a smart TV and that's the way they're doing it. You have to kind
of break that down. Okay, so Here is the understanding from the device type.
I want to know what type of device they're watching, because once you understand the
device, you have a little bit clearer picture of how they can engage with your
content. And then, two, their accessibility to finish the video. You know,
because, like, you might not see long AVD on different devices.
You might see longer on other devices. Well, we want to understand that because once
we understand where they're watching it on which device type, it gives us clarity of
how to engage with them even deeper. Okay. So when we understand the device type,
we understand how they watch and we can start making very specific hypothesis of
what they're doing, how they're doing, and so on, just so that we know and
understand our viewer better. And then two, it
are they finding our videos? And this is where traffic is. I am the most sensitive
to traffic. At the end of the day, that's all I care about is, is who the viewer
is and the traffic source. Those two things are, if I can only do those two things
in real time, I can succeed. Now, I love more data, of course,
you know, and luckily YouTube's given us a lot more data. But when YouTube looks at
it, they need to understand traffic source because that is a huge differentiation of
patterns that it's going to see in a viewer. Okay. So we have browse feature. We
have suggested videos. We have search. We have channel. We have external. And we
have advertising. And then two, believe in a traffic source is notification. So treat
all these differently. And the reason why we treat it differently, because each
traffic source has a different algorithm. Okay. So the AI controls all of YouTube,
and YouTube has algorithms, okay? And when you understand that each traffic source
has its own algorithm, okay, and then, too, the way that we're replacing the word
algorithm to the viewer, each traffic source has a different viewer. So when you
understand the viewer's intent based on the traffic source, that gives you a little
bit more clarity or that picture from there. So you could actually have a different
success rate. They call it a hit rate on the YouTube algorithm, right? And they
might have a different success rate for someone in suggested videos versus, you know,
browse. And so I And so I want you to really wrap your mind around this, that
YouTube is only looking at the viewer, and they're looking at where they're watching
it from the device type, and then where they're watching it, and that would be the
traffic source, because each traffic source has its own algorithm.
Okay. Now, each traffic source also has its own bot looking, well, multiple bots
looking at viewer patterns. So the algorithm gets its information from bots.
And I'll kind of break this down. This might be over the head of a few of you's,
and I'll try to explain this the best that I possibly can so that you have
clarity, okay? And all the bot is looking for is what does the viewer do?
Okay, so it's looking at all the satisfaction from there. So when we do this
example, So the AI is looking at traffic sources is going to the viewer. It follows
the viewer. And that bot just kind of like just kind of carries on the shoulder of
the viewer and sees exactly what everything that you do and what you don't do. And
once it has it, it gives back information to the AI to give it data that it needs
to help predict what that viewer wants. So each viewing experience is different.
You're going to see a way on Wednesday, where we're opening up more training and
you're starting to understand very specifically that, that, you know, when you give
YouTube the data that you need it to understand who the viewer is, then YouTube's
going to give you a totally different viewing experience. And it's going to help you
understand what's actually working on YouTube and what's not. I can't wait for you
to see that because we understand what YouTube is and what it's not, and we
understand the engine behind what YouTube is looking for and really going very in
-depth, okay? So it's all about the traffic source because the AI says, oh, I have
a very specific algorithm. Here's the viewer for this traffic source. We want to see
exactly what this viewer is doing, okay? Now, in the viewer feedback loop,
when it comes to the browse browser, we need to understand what browse feature is.
So browse feature is traffic coming from the homepage, subscription feed, trending and
exploring, watch later, okay, that's one of my favorites, and other browse features,
which I don't even know what the heck other browse features. It just says it, it's
just, might be some experiment that we're doing or whatever. But that, that is that,
that bot that literally applies very specifically to the viewer in these different
areas. So when you go to the homepage, just think, oh, there's a specific algorithm
for the home page and subscription feed and trending and exploring and watching later
and other browse features. And it's basically bringing in as a whole to take that
data and then YouTube's knowing how to promote or give videos for viewers to
discover. Okay. So suggested videos. This one is a very interesting one.
I think this is one of the most misunderstood traffic sources. And when you know
how to really understand this based on your strategy, it can really bring in a lot
of X -factor views that you weren't really planning on. If you want the quickest
amount of views, you're going to go with browse feature. Quickest amount of views in
the shortest amount of time, you want to go to browse feature. If you want more
longevity over the life of a channel, you need to have a good suggestive video
strategy because people always need to be discovering and finding and engaging.
Next, this is important. Suggested videos comes from, trap it from suggested videos
that appear next or in other videos. So like if you're watching on the computer,
you don't see it on the right hand side. If you're watching on mobile, it's down
below. If you're watching on TV, there's multiple ways to engage with that. So
you've got to understand the device type and then to where that traffic's coming.
And the great thing about it is I'm going to teach you all how to do this when
we get to my favorite section, which is in analytics, of really understanding how to
analyze your videos if it's working. and we're going to really break that down,
okay? Next, search. You're going to hear that I really don't care much about search
because the search is the easiest understanding. If somebody has a need, they're
going to search it out, right? So it's the easiest thing to do. All the other
stuff is a little bit more difficult to understand and rep your mind around it.
Now, if you were to take all the views on YouTube today, Brows and suggestion is
like 80%. Okay, search is less than 7%. So if you want a lot of views, search
could be a great way to start, and we'll talk about what type of viewership goes
where. But when you're looking at the overall successfulness of the channel and also
you as a content creator, we need to actually understand, if YouTube's anticipating
the viewer and my content more resonant with the viewers, then I'm going to have
more opportunity to grow because YouTube can really push it out and not be minimized
by the amount of impressions that people are searching for. And then, too, what that
actually is ranking. Okay. So search is traffic from YouTube search.
Channel is traffic that comes from your own channel, but also other channels. So you
might have a channel page, right and you might have a video on that channel page
and people go there and they might click on it you might have other people's on a
playlist on your channel or other videos from another channel on your channel because
you're promoting that right well that is what youtube's looking at okay any of those
views and then two when you understand oh they're watching it there gives you a
different understanding as well okay external uh this is the biggest red flag um i
want to I want to make it clear. This is the biggest red flag for YouTube because
YouTube cannot validate any views off of YouTube. Okay. When I got real -time
analytics, that was one of the coolest things ever because a lot of assumptions that
I had were validated, which is I didn't believe views on Facebook or other social
media sharing websites were actually running on YouTube. And they didn't. We had 100
different people watch a video and it only picked up two views from Facebook out of
the 100. And so we were able to validate that. And then two, the reason why is
because everything could be falsified and YouTube is not going to falsify because
it's not a view -based algorithm. It's understanding the viewer. And they can't
understand the viewer when they can't really cook them, when they can't really follow
them around, when they can't really put a bot there. So they don't they just
disregard them they literally disregard this um and and the uh the the understanding
of external is they can understand uh you know google because they're owned by
google and so you might see a whole bunch of traffic comes in search and it just
rapidly comes into a channel uh off or it comes onto a video and and then it dies
within 12 hours. And then you're like, oh, you're freaking out. Well, no, because
that's how the Google algorithm works. So you have to make sure that you understand,
yeah, YouTube, I'll have more data and will actually be really closely sharing that
data with Google because they are from the same company. But then, too,
they can validate that enough of what works only on the other algorithm, which is
there. So when I look at external, the only thing I care about would be Google
search and the way that it does that. So my whole thing is this, okay,
when you really break this down and understand that, oh, Google's going to only do
what Google does because they might say, oh, this, they shared some value here at
this minute marker and they only share that and you get really frustrated because
everybody's coming to the middle And they're watching with it, but Google doesn't
care about YouTube's goal. They only care about Google's goal. Okay. And it's about
giving them very specifically the value that this person is looking in search or
where they're watching that content. Okay, advertising. This is the easiest way to
take your channel. Trust me, I know it. I get more people reaching out is when
they start promoting their own videos. Why? Why with this?
So the reason why is because you're giving YouTube their very bad data.
There's not a world that you would give them the perfect data. There's not. Trust
me, I've done a lot of YouTube ads. I've done a lot of ads in general for my
agency and the companies that we have. and you have to give them specific points of
viewership. Well, I don't want to tell YouTube what my viewers are. I want YouTube
to tell me who my viewers are. Okay. And the best way to do that is for them to
really find the viewer and the viewer goes through the human feedback loop, which is
finds enough value, shares it with their friends, and then they come watch the
video, and then YouTube says, oh, there's a pattern of people that do this. Let's
serve it out to more people. Okay. The moment that you start falsifying those views
coming through ads, you're going to take, you're going to take momentum. And I've
seen it over and over and over again. Trust me, you don't want to mess with this
ever. And I'm not saying there's a way to actually advertise, but you don't do it
on your channel and you don't do it on your videos. Okay. We'll get very specific
on this. And if you have questions for, you know, this will have a section at the
very end. Okay, notifications. I know a lot of content creators get really frustrated
when they say, oh, my subscribers are not being notified. Well, why aren't they
being notified? Because every traffic source has its own algorithm. And what it's
looking at is they don't care about the creator. They don't care about what the
creator's uploading. They could care less about that. What they care about is who's
getting that notification and if the viewer cares about it. So the higher the
notification click through rate is is when the viewer actually wants it. Okay. And
you'll see it across the board. It'll be high, low, all the, everything in between.
And the reality is it's it's about understanding that. So there's a lot of creators
that get frustrated and YouTube says, you know, That's great. It's not broken. We
just care about the viewers. Okay. I know that's harsh. I know that's really not
really helping you understand, you know, that you don't have value.
You do as a creator. But I just need you to understand the way that we look at
YouTube, which is through the eyes of the viewer every single time. Okay. Because
when we do that, we can predictably bring value to the viewer. Okay, so
notifications is traffic is when viewers click on the push notification. Now, keep in
mind, some of you are doing shorts and you're doing 10 shorts, you know, a week.
That is a huge notification signal for a viewer if you keep notifications on shorts.
You know, you're hitting them 10 times. Well, YouTube's going to select and only
notify them maybe once or twice, even if they click on because that's just too much
because if they're doing all the notifications and everything else, they have to
prioritize which ones they want to watch. This is where we truly understand.
So all this is to understand the device type and the traffic source.
We want to know how the viewer watches YouTube. Now, when we break down how YouTube
watches YouTube. This is the best example I can give you in the most simple form.
So if I'm watching on my mobile device, okay, YouTube knows that I will have a
better click on video A because I'm on my mobile device. And if I'm watching video
A on browse feature, what YouTube does, it knows exactly what to recommend next.
That could be a C video that some content creator made. So YouTube's trying to
curate my viewing experience on my mobile device at 10 o 'clock in the morning.
Okay, because the AI actually understands, because it's followed me enough, the
patterns of what I do at 10 a .m. on my mobile device, okay? And when I come on
to YouTube, they're going to say, oh, here's a video you want to watch. And when I
start that session From my mobile device, on the homepage, it knows exactly what
videos to follow up with. And if I go back, if my viewing pattern is to click on
the homepage, watch a video, I don't click on suggested videos, but I come back to
the homepage, YouTube knows what to recommend next. That could be that C video. So
the C video could actually be on suggested videos or browse features because it's
basically looking at your individual viewing patterns, okay individual viewing patterns
so when you break that down you'll actually start having the series of videos of
what you would watch in that session now keep in mind youtube wants to predict what
the viewer wants to watch and keep them on the platform longer so this is what
they're doing if they can provide that long -term satisfaction then youtube's going to
say oh here's another video and there's ways to get people to come into this
viewing pattern where they're on a bench. And they're like, oh, my gosh, I've got
to watch five videos of this person. That's great. We want them to do that, right?
Oh, I can't believe I found this video. I want to go deeper with them. Okay, going
deeper with them. And they're watching multiple videos. Okay, so YouTube does that.
Now, there is a case that YouTube really sees that, that,
you know what, the device type is computer. They might have started the video on
the device, but yet only watch it for five minutes,
and they're going to come to their computer, and they realize, do you know what,
they're not going to pick up video A. They're going to actually watch video H. So
they're going to recommend something different. Or they might say, oh, the viewer
actually watches from his mobile device and when they come to the computer because
they were just kind of listening to it as they're driving to work and they got to
those videos. So if it's browse, suggestion, or any of the ways that traffic would
be tracked by YouTube, they're going to give them suggestions for that. This one is
the most important one. I think a lot of you are starting to see an uptick in TV
viewership. Well, there is an insurgents on TV viewership. And ever since that
YouTube started YouTube TV, they're starting to insert opportunities because more
people are actually watching.
I will hit save, okay, and watch later. Why? Because when I'm on my TV,
that's where I want to watch those longer videos. And when you understand that, that
that's my pattern, that YouTube will actually start still serving me those things,
but they'll know that I'm going to do that and watch it later in the day when I'm
at my TV. And so you will see that every traffic source And also,
every device type and traffic source with that device type has a different viewing
experience. And each viewer, YouTube's trying to anticipate how they watch YouTube
based on what device type and where the traffic is. Now, I'm hoping that this is
making sense. I'm trying to simplify this as much as possible. It's a lot more
complex, guys. It really is. But when you really take it at the root of what it
is, YouTube is just trying to understand how we watch YouTube and predict what we
want to watch next, okay? Because if that happens, they're going to make more money
and we're going to be more satisfied and we're going to come back over and over
and over and over again. And it doesn't matter how they're watching YouTube.
YouTube's just aware because they just want to anticipate. And so once again,
YouTube does not push videos for creators. It polls videos for viewers. I'm going to
say that one more time because this is the most important thing. YouTube does not
push videos for creators. It pulls videos for viewers. It's all about the viewer.
Okay. This is where we are going to nerd out.
Okay. Darrell only cares about two viewers, okay,
okay, the potential viewer, which is anyone that hasn't seen my video and also
someone that watched one video, okay, that's the potential viewer. That's when I say
potential viewer, it is a new viewer and also someone that could be the new viewer,
okay, which is they haven't watched the video yet or they watched at least one
video okay Now, this is where we start to really understand how to bring value.
Okay, the second viewership, or viewer that I care about, is the active viewer.
This is anyone that watched more than one video on your channel and has returned
within a given year. So they watched at least two videos within a given year. that
would be considered an active viewer or in YouTube analytics,
the returning viewer. So I only care about the potential viewer, which has someone
that hasn't really clicked on a video yet or watched at least one video. And then
the active viewer is the return of viewer. Now, you might say, Daryl, why aren't
you caring about your core viewer? I literally heard you talk about it. Well, I do
care about them. But when you focus your attention on your active viewer and you
have elements of how to make the content better, that's when you're going to engage
the core viewer. The core viewer is someone that's literally going to watch a lot
of your videos. That's when you see your average view per viewer go up because they
found enough value and they have enough trust in you as a creator of bringing that
value that they'll actually watch more than two videos. In fact, they'll watch maybe
three or four videos in a given time, right? So that is a strategy that we're in
a really deep dive more into your value proposition. And that starts in Section 3
and also Section 4. But the reality is when we start giving storytelling and ways
that we pepper our personality and being authentic, that engages the core viewer.
And when the core viewer is engaged, they're like, oh, I find some commonality with
this video or with this person in this video. Now, the next one is hardcore viewer.
These are the people that will never miss a video. They will watch it all the way
every second. They'll go all the way at the end. And you might say, do you know
what, Darrell, why aren't you focusing on them? Well, the reason why I don't focus
in on the hardcore viewer when it comes to the algorithms perspective is because the
YouTube doesn't. They don't really care. It's a small fraction of people. And some
of you right now, the reason why you plateaued is because the only people that
you're focusing in on is your core viewer and your hardcore viewer. And that's the
reason why you're not getting any more views. You're not bringing in more potential
viewership or new viewership. So the reason why you're stuck is because you're
focusing in on the wrong viewer.
The reason why you're stuck is because you're focusing on the wrong viewer.
Secondarily, there's some of you are starting a channel and you put out a video and
you're like, I'm not getting any of views. And the reason why is you're focusing so
much on your core viewer that you're stuck. Like you're never going to go get it.
And so we need to be able to have a lot of clarity.
are consistent. We are consistent with our value proposition that we're not little
here over there. We're very consistent that we convert active viewers into core
viewers. And as we engage with that consistency and we start sharing who we are and
our authenticity and our vision, our mission, our purpose, and our why. And there is
that value proposition that that core viewer turns into a hardcore viewer. And the
reality is this is you don't need a lot of viewers to make a ton of money on
YouTube. You don't. You just need people that are hardcore or that are core.
So the money aspect of it is the people that will actually pull out their credit
card and support you are your core viewers and your hardcore viewers. How does that
come? It comes with consistency of value. If you're able to provide value for that
viewer consistently and they can count on you and they know love and trust you,
then it's easier for the core viewer to take and swipe that credit card for
whatever you're doing. I don't care if it's a membership. I don't care if it's a
course. I don't care if it is a product. That's how it all works.
Okay. This is our epicenter, guys.
When we're doing Channel Jumpstart, this is our epicenter. And the reason why is we
need to understand the viewer to a depth that you've never considered before. The
reason why you want to become a part of Channel Jumpstart and become a part of
Channel Jumpstarter, jumpstart and become a jump starter is because you feel stuck or
you want to take it in the next level. Well, the more that you understand who
you're making content for and what they find valuable and you're very consistent in
their value, then it can elevate. So in the training with HopeScope, like she did
her avatar breakdown and you can see the shift of her content to understand the
viewer better. And as she did that, the views started to go up. And What it did
is the potential views became active views and active views become core views and
core views become hardcore views. And before you know it, it widens the circle. What
is it widened? It widens the potential viewership, okay? And it also widens the
active viewership, okay? Because they might only watch two or three videos in a
given time, right? But it gives more opportunity to recommend content. And as they
engage with it, based on what we learned about YouTube algorithm, YouTube will serve
it more, okay? More. Okay. So in Channel Jump Start,
we're going to focus in on what the viewer will watch. And we want to understand
the viewer so in depth that we're making the right type of hypotheses of what type
of content to create or the way that we actually put content together. We want to
understand them to to the depths that we are making a good plan,
we're executing on that plan, and then we're gonna literally analyze, did it work,
did it not work? Well, what are we looking at? Did the viewer actually like this
or not? How do we know? Well, that's what I'm gonna teach you, okay? And we need
to also look at what the viewer finds valuable, okay?
Justin and I launched the new channel this, about a week ago, and we are already
monetized, okay? One video got us monetized. Well, it's actually three videos. You
have to do three videos as part of the YouTube partner program. But we did one
long form video, and we did a couple shorts just so that we can get monetized. But
just based off of the viewership of understanding that one video, it crushed.
Okay, and the reason why, we were looking only at potential viewers. Who's going to
actually click on the video? And our goal was to resonate our authenticity, to take
them from a potential viewer, which is watching one video, to watch our second
video. Now, our second video, long -form video, was released last week. And believe
it or not, a lot of the people that were potential viewer came over and watched
and engaged with the second video, okay? They now become an active viewer. So this
brand new channel, you know, now has active viewers based off of two videos.
And if we consistently bring the value of what the channel is and the type of
content that we are going to bring, i .e., the value we're going to bring, and kind
of open up to why we're doing it, it's great. And I would say this was a great
example of how to be different, but more authentic than just entertainment.
And there's a way to entertain and so on. There's a lot of great ways to do it.
And so what we're trying to do is really understand the viewer well enough and what
they would find valuable and then be consistent in that value. And then also not
trying to pigeonhole our content. We don't want want to pigeonhole us,
only to make certain type of content. No, no, no. We need to understand that.
That's where our vision, mission, purpose, and then two, started understanding the
niche that we're in and the type of content we're going to do. And then ultimately,
as we go through section two and three, we're going to actually start understanding
buckets a little bit better and how to replicate content that will work every single
time. Okay. Next, we also want to predict as jump starters what type of content the
viewer will share. Why will they share this? And also, how can we get the viewer
to binge? What would be a sequence of videos that you know that would belong
together that they can actually binge watch? And if you really look at your viewing
experience on YouTube, when you discovered a channel, if you all discovered a channel
and you're like, where's this channel been my whole life? you literally, you share
with somebody that you know, because that's what we do as humans, you're like, oh
my gosh, they'd love this channel. You got to check it out. Or you're talking with
them, you know, have you check out of this channel? It's so amazing, right? But you
also go deeper. And the deeper that you go, you go from a potential viewer to an
active viewer to a core viewer. Okay. And then it can turn into a hardcore viewer
depending on how much you engage with their new content.
So When we look at this, that's the human feedback loop, we really need to
understand people and where they find value. And as they find value, they're going
to share. And as new people, you know, know that it's coming from a trusted source,
somebody that's like them, they're going to come back and watch that video. And then
they become the viewer. And that's a feedback loop that goes over and over and over
again. Now, it only takes YouTube a little bit because if this happens naturally
that people are sharing it and people are coming on the platform and they have the
same type of browsing history or it's segmented in a way that is similar,
YouTube's going to look for other viewers like that on the platform. And what are
they going to do? They're going to put it on the homepage. That's browse feature.
They're going to put it as suggestive videos or other videos that might be more
relevant. And that's how all this works. Okay. So where we need to really deep dive
into it is understand the intent of the viewer and also the value proposition.
So when we actually understand the intent and the value proposition, we can predict
very consistently how to get views. Like this is the, I would say the secret of
getting views is when you understand the viewer well enough that you understand their
intent and you know what they find valuable, then you're going to get views every
single time.
need to more understand their intent of why they're coming to YouTube when we
understand when the viewers coming and their intent of why they're coming to YouTube
we can know our value proposition so if my intent is to come onto YouTube and go
and search for something I'm looking for something very specific okay it could be
information it could be how to fix my car it could be oh, you know,
I didn't quite understand this thing that was brought up or this word, right? I'm
getting very specific and getting very granular quickly. So the value would be is
whatever they're searching for, that's what the value it is. Okay. So if they're
looking for something, the values around a specific thing that they're searching,
okay? That's more understanding their intent. So if I'm searching for something,
that's my intent, then I need to take it through that lens. Now, the difference
would be is most of you stop there. I'm saying, oh, I'm just bringing value there.
And when you learn the channel jump start system, this is one of my favorite
things. It's actually in Section 8. We go through content strategy. But if you
understand, oh, the traffic sources search, Daryl doesn't really hate search. He just
knows it's limited. But if I can convert that new viewer, which is that potential
viewer, because they just clicked on one video, if I can convert them into an
active viewer, which is getting to watch two videos, then the next time they come
to YouTube for a different intent, my video is going to show up because they found
me, they engaged with me in search, they watched another video, and how do they
watch that other video? Well, it could be an end screen, it could be a pin
comment, it could be suggested, either one of regardless, right? But regardless, they
watched another video. They could have even went back to the channel to say, oh,
man, that's great. I want to watch something deeper. Okay, regardless, that happened,
right? When they come to YouTube next, guess what's going to show up on the
homepage? My video. So if they only watched, like, 30 seconds of that video found
in search, then it does no good. They only watched 80 seconds of that video. They
don't know good, right? If they don't go watch another video, then YouTube's not
really going to say, hey, this is a great video to be suggested.
they wanted and you gave it to them. Why would they need to watch anything deeper?
So our content strategy will be more wrapped around, understanding the attentionality
of the viewer and predict. How do we get them to go deeper with us? Because that's
what we're trying to do. Our goal is to take them from a potential viewer, that i
.e. new viewer, going into an active viewer, which is watching more than one video.
Value proposition is about how you, as a creator, fulfilled that need. So what we're
trying to do is understand value and we understand what type of need that they're
looking for. Okay, this is where viewer's intent drives the value proposition. And
the viewer's intent,
when you actually understand the viewer's intent and you actually understand the type
of value you bring with that intent, I give you an example of that,
then it helps you really predict how to get people to go deeper.
Okay, so let me, let me kind of break it down with this Venn diagram. Now, what
your passion is is going to be your niche for the channel, okay? You could be
passionate about motor oil. It could be true, okay? And you're going to see what
does the audience care about. This is what the AI is looking for, right? And you
realize that you're going to understand this deeper because your audience kind of
cares about this. So this crossover here in the middle, where the arrow is, is
where your value is. So they might like motor oil, but they're coming to understand
something about motor oil. Okay, does this last longer than this? Okay, I'm very
curious because I like motor oil and I want the best for my engine, and so I need
to understand it. So the value is what is better, okay? So that is the value
proposition coming in depth from there. Now, when you actually understand this, you're
providing consistently that value proposition. Now, to go even deeper would be
bringing pop culture irrelevancy into your video. So if it's relevant that something's
happening right now, in the world, okay? And it's also what the audience cares about
or could care about, and it's what you're passionate about. Then the value
proposition goes through the roof. We had a jump starter grew really, really fast.
And the reason why is she covers the law, and she loves the law, okay?
Well, their audience and the viewer likes the law, too, and they like law on order.
And I don't mean the TV show, but they like anything around that because they're
very curious on it. But then also there's something super relevant that was trending
and relevant to today that that brought that value proposition.
And it was irresistible. And so she was able to grow really fast where she was the
biggest live streamer, you know, on on YouTube. I mean, think about that for a
second. And Why was that is because she actually had what she's passionate about,
what her audience cared about, and it made it more timely and relevant that widened
that prospective viewer to become an active viewer. Now, as you break this down,
there's another thing I want you to start thinking about, and we'll go more in
depth in this in Section 4, but what is a shareable moment?
I need you to always look at any time we're creating content, you're thinking this.
How can I get them to click? And that's when your passion and your audience passion
about something comes together. And you'll increase your click through rate if it's
more relevant around pop culture or something where it's a little bit broader, right?
You'll get a better click through rate because you're getting more people watching
it. And then in the video, you need to be asking, well, what is my shareable
moment? And what is that? because everything that we've ever shared in our lives.
and also where they found value and also, also where that shareable moment is.
And so as you're coming through the new channel jumpstart system, we're going to
really hone this in where you really have a good hypothesis of who you're making
content for and what they find valuable. And then two, what would get them to
share. Now, there's types of viewer intent. Now, we're going to go through
educational intent, entertainment, and escapism. We also have, you know,
community and connection. We have curiosity and exploration. We have buying decisions.
We have inspiration and motivation. We have FOMO and trends. These are some of your
intents. There might be more. But I kind of package them into this so that we have
a lot more understanding of the most common, okay? So let's do educational intent.
So the viewers are seeking knowledge or answers to specific questions. Okay, this is
the educational intent when someone comes. Now, I need to have you understand this.
It's not always about what they're seeking knowledge on through search. There's a big
misunderstanding that educational content is only for search. I will literally disagree
with you, up and down,It's like, oh, I'm curious because I know that he consistently will give me
something I didn't know about a specific subject. And the subject is always, always
relevant in pop culture and also timely. It's a very timely video. And so they're
giving me understanding to increase my knowledge to answers to questions I didn't
even know I had. That is the value proposition. So don't think this as an
educational intent as a search thing where they're just coming and getting valid in
a video. But it's more about the consistency of how you're providing the
entertainment to that intent. And then they're wanting more. We had some great jump
starters that come through that all their traffic was through search. And this was
the moment that they had clarity on what their viewer intent was.
And they just changed the way that they presented their content. And they were
talking to the person that would want to be more of an active viewer. Well,
their traffic shifted from search to browse feature, which is homepage,
subscription feed trending and and it it made their whole channel turn upside down
in a positive way okay it turned upside down and they were getting more views i
mean they went from thousands of views through search to hundreds of thousands of
views and million viewed videos just by understanding that intent okay now This is
where we need to cater to the intent. Like, everything that we do when we create
content is understanding that YouTube's looking at, when YouTube's looking at the
viewer, they're trying to understand the intent. So we need to make titles and
thumbnails to be cleared about the value proposition. Like a good one for an
educational intent would be step -by -step guides. Those are really good. Okay. Step
-by -step guides, too, fill in the blank topic. Okay, great. People are looking step
by step. So when you understand, oh, they're coming to do this, I just need to do
that, right? Now, getting them to click is, is what we're trying to do is,
like, get the, if they're, if they're coming through and they're looking for a guide
or a complete breakdown in or, you know, a, you know, a hack or whatever that may
be, they're clicking on that, right? Now, when they come into the content, YouTube's
always looking at, are you delivering on that value proposition that you packaged in
your title and thumbnail? And when are you delivering it? Because if you don't
deliver it until a minute mark or eight, you're missing the opportunity. People are
bouncing off. They're not getting to the end of the videos. So that's more about
what we're going to teach you in Section 4 with that structure. Entertainment and
escapism. Viewers want to be entertained, relax, or escape from daily life okay
This is really important.
Everyone, you know, views YouTube differently. I view a lot of content.
And I found that when I want to escape and I just want to just kind of unplug
and I want to go from there, there's certain type of content that YouTube will
cater to me to. And it literally anticipates me and it keeps me on the platform
longer because I just I don't want to think I don't I don't want I almost want
that dopamine effect a little bit so there's a lot of shorts in it but like I
just I just don't want to feel like I'm working because when I come on YouTube I
actually feel like I'm working every single time and so there's certain type of
content that when I start engaging with it in fact I actually created an account
that I just watched that so it just curates that it's easy for me to watch the
content that I'm into. Now, that being said,
entertainment is different from relaxing, and relaxing is different from escapism,
okay? When you actually understand that these are very different, then you can really
understand what the value you're going to bring. So even when we break it down in
this category, there's all these subcategories go from there. And once we can do
that consistently, That's when we can actually engage deeper with our viewer.
Community and connection. This is something that most people try to do in their
videos. But believe it or not, there are viewers looking for communities actively,
okay? They're really doing this. They're doing this time and time again. And they're
looking for videos that have great interaction in it. And so when you bring content
and there's value and you're more engaging of giving back to the community and
engaging with the community, they're gonna be more apt to this. So like one of the
great strategies for this to create communities do live streams. It is because that
is a community focused value proposition. You know, not a,
you know, just like the viewer is looking to deeper, they want to be able to
respond to you in real time. That is the value that they're looking for and that's
what they want or it's more relevant, you know, it's from there. But keep in mind,
viewers are looking for a sense of belonging or emotional connections with the
creator and communities. Okay, how to cater to this? It's like build through
comments, Q &As, community shoutouts, live streams, personal and virtual events.
I mean, we can go way in depth on this. Curiosity and exploration. This is also
about educational content. A lot of the educational content that I like could be
more in the curiosity and exploration bucket, but it's also education.
So you got to understand that if they didn't educate me and I'm just curious about
something, I'm probably not going to come back for my long -term sustainability. I
might be a potential viewer that just watched one video, not an active viewer that
watches multiple videos or a core viewer that watches every single video. And so
that curiosity is driven by curiosity or the desire to learn something unexpected.
And it could be, oh, you didn't know about this. Or, you know, here's someone that
did this that you didn't know about. Or, you know, you can't believe this. You
know, there's a lot of styles that you can engage with when we come through
titling. We'll get into this very specifically in section three. Buying decisions.
There are people that come to YouTube that are looking for a review or a product
breakdown or an understanding. They might say, I really need to do this before I'm
going to shell out a lot of money. I need to see what this is going on. Or I
don't want to spend on something that I don't need. I need a review on this. And
so this is really, you know, really taking them to no love and trust you by
value proposes that they're looking for. Hey, inspiration motivation. Viewers are
seeking inspiration for personal growth and creative endeavors. How to cater to this
is really delivering something actionable, uplifting content. Some of the most viral
videos that I've ever shared are around inspiration and motivation. And the reason
why is because when someone needs a little pick me up or there needs to be some
engagement, I'm trying, that's part of me as a viewer. I'm always looking for how
do I actually do this where I can help someone because I just found value. I got
inspired. I got motivated. I'm starting to think differently from the words that are
said. And so as you're breaking this down, you can do it. Now, this is probably
the one that I will say most content creators get a ton of views,
but they don't get consistent views because all they try to do is trend jack, okay?
So FOMO and Trans, viewers don't want to miss out on trends or popular content. So
there's an opportunity here. That's where the viewers actually are coming from a
potential viewer to watching your video. But it's exhausting for a creator to stay
on top of all the trends, or trends come and go, and they don't hit like you
think.
And I've seen more creators leave a full -time business because they can't replicate
trends. They can't anticipate trends. And so what we want to do is jump starters is
be predictable. Where we use trends is to provide that as that other rung that we
talked about, which is relevant, but also, you know, the trends,
what's happening right now. And when that crossover is there, that is when everything
elevates because the value is so much more and they go deeper and they're like, oh,
this is so great. I can't wait to do X, Y, or Z. So the whole thing about start
is we're shifting away from creating content as a creator and what you want to do
as a creator to realizing that we're in entertainment and or a media company. And
the only way that we stay in business is when we provide value. And when we
provide value consistently, that's when YouTube will find our viewer for us.
And that viewer will go away from being the avatar of potential viewer,
and they become our returning viewer. So when we really break this down in Channel
Jumpstart and understanding what YouTube cares about, and we're anticipating the same
way that YouTube anticipates, which is prediction of viewership, how viewers are going
to receive the content, and how are they going to go deeper and what they actually
do? That's what it's about. So our whole thing is we're not focusing in on the
hardcore viewer. Please, for the love of everything that's holy, do not focus in on
the hardcore viewer. I don't even want you to focus on the core viewer yet. What
we need to do is how do we get someone to click? Okay, that's that potential
viewer. And how do we get them to watch more than one viewer, which is the active
viewer? So for us, the potential viewer and your active viewer, and then if we do
it consistently, that will naturally bring in the core viewer and also the hardcore
viewer. So realistically, that is how the algorithm works. I tried to simplify it as
much as I could. But this is where questions come in, and we're going to rapid
fire some questions to give you clarity. And then keep in mind, this is not where
it stops. Okay, this is where it starts because I need you to go through this
video again. I know I changed your perspective over and over again. And the reason
why was because you might not have sought this way or there might have been a
golden nugget here or basically you heard that but it really wasn't applied here.
Now, so if you have a question, let's go ahead and Justin, let's read a couple and
then bring a couple on if we can do that okay here we go first question up we
got sue blackhurst she asks oh it's moving quick the chat can you clarify if you
copy the link to the video on social media does it not count
okay so if you copy the link and it's in a comment and they click it and they go
from a, from a social platform to YouTube, and it's not playing on the social
platform, that would be an external traffic source that's coming onto YouTube.
Now, I just want to make it clear that YouTube will look at that very suspiciously.
That's how most bots get views. There are people doing viewbots and stuff like that
that YouTube shuts down every single time. That's the way they do it. It's like
coming in off of YouTube, not watching deeper on YouTube. And so that's one of the
things. You'll find a thing that has been hitting creators lately, which is called
invalid traffic. That is invalid traffic. It's coming from that. I'm telling you,
there's a lot of things that they're looking at. So it does count it when it comes
onto YouTube, but it's very suspicious that it will take time before they have to
validate it. So. Awesome. I'm going to read another one from the chat. Then I'm
going to go over to the hands that are raised. We've got Tyler. How do you know
what types of view intent do you focus on? Yeah,
we're going to break that down, Tyler, a lot more in depth when we fill out our
workbook. So believe it or not, your assignment was to do your avatar persona one.
And I just needed you have something. On Wednesday, we open up, and we're actually
going to fill out one of these. It's going to be very, very in -depth. And the in
-depthness of it is understanding the potential viewer and also the active viewer.
So we're actually trying to understand both of those. Like, how do we get someone
to click and what's going to be in their makeup? Now, you might not have data on
your channel. You might have a lot of data on your channel. And I'm going to show
you how to look at it through those lens. And I'm going to actually introduce to
you a tool that we're making available to you that's going to help you understand
with clarity on all these different factors that we're looking at. Because it's still
a hypothesis. I don't care what tool you're using. It's going to always be a
hypothesis until you can validate And that's what we're trying to do, is validate it
very consistently. Awesome. Here we go. Daniel, you are able to chat.
Hi, Daryl. I've actually got two questions. And the big question I think you've
answered, which was, can you define the word value? But as you finished here, I'm
starting to think that the way, correct me if I'm wrong, is that the definition of
the word value is fulfilling your viewer intent through all those different things
you just went through. So I'd like to hear if that's correct or not question. Yeah.
So if I'm if I'm coming and I'm looking to be entertained, then I need to be
entertained. That's my intent, right? If I if I'm coming to YouTube just to be
entertained, that's the intent. I better be entertained. And if I'm a source of
bringing consistent entertainment, you just converted me to an active viewer.
Okay, the second question real quick is what if I'm even on the big three devices,
mobile TV computer? Don't go granular on that yet. Okay. We're going to go way in
depth on that. Okay, thanks. The difference is how we look at it of where they're
watching it. Just because they're the same percentage doesn't make the viewership the
same. And I'll show you that very in -depth in Channel Jump Start.
There we go. Kay, time served. You are up.
Hello, can you hear me? Sure can. Hey, Darrell. I hope this isn't a bad question.
It's, or not a bad, but a dumb question. So we have a lot of videos that we've
shot, and we're kind of in the process of editing multiple videos at the same time,
but we have like three or four videos. And going to the psychographics over the
last few days has kind of changed how we are thinking about the viewer. And then
this meeting has also kind of changed that. Would you recommend, like, maybe holding
off on some edits until we get through Section 3? Because I'm kind of confused, not
confused, but like, it's, I want you to do business as usual. Okay. And then commit
to me one video, you know, and that's from start to finish, from the idea to the
execution of the idea, and then we can go from there. But if you're already
releasing, it's great if it's a new channel that hasn't been started yet or
whatever. I just want you keep whatever you're doing consistently. Okay. But just
promise we one video. Okay.
Hey, Zeke, trick shots. Trick shots. You are up.
Hello. Can you hear me? Hey, Zeke. Hey, I'm brother. Hello. So my question is, how
do you understand YouTube of realism? Real time. Sorry. Real time human behavior.
Okay, that's great question, Zeke. When you go into analytics, and I'm going to,
we're going to break down the process of how I actually do this in section seven.
But just in short, you'll see where your views are coming from very specifically.
And you'll see over in the right hand side if you're on the computer. If not,
it's like one of the tabs down where you can see where the traffic's coming from
in real time. And it'll say, oh, these are the videos. Then you have to click on
a video. And then it will tell you, oh, 80 % of the traffic's coming from search
and you know 20 % is coming from browse you know so you'll be able to see it
there but don't look very specifically at that yet because what we need to do is
I've got to teach you more about understanding people and what they respond to and
then and then we'll make better decisions as we go to analyze that okay because
we're going to go through that whole process now the difference would be is when
you watch YouTube, do you watch it on your phone and TV? I watch it on my iPad.
Your iPad. And what time of the day does Mom and Dad let you watch it on the
iPad?
Kind of any time, unless I have to do something. Like after school or something.
Okay, that's great. That's great. So after school, they know the time of when after
school is, right? So you have a high probability of watching it right after school,
right? And then when you go to, when you, as the viewer goes to YouTube, do you
just open up YouTube and go to the homepage or where do you go?
I kind of try to recon a little bit, you know, try to find my. But where do you
do that? Where do you do that? Do you do it through search or do you just on the
homepage or what's trending or where do you do it's like i would kind of like give
a little short scan on the home page and then if i don't find like the people
that i want to recon from that's in my niche then i'll probably but you're but
you're doing as a creator but when you go to watch it when you're not recon in it
when you're just going to be entertained like like i would assume you're watching
jessor right Yeah. So Jesser released a video and is on the homepage. You're
clicking on that thing, right? Yes. Okay. That's all I'm saying is,
well, that's the type of intent. So when we're talking, I want you to start
thinking of how you watch YouTube, not as a creator, but as a viewer, because if
you know that if there was a Jester video or there's like a deep dive breakdown,
you know, with something with the MBA, you might be, there's a higher probability.
You might click on that, right? You might, you know. And so that's what we're
trying to.
Yeah, this is so great. He's amazing. Thank you. That's right.
Awesome. Brian Flynn, what if we feel our hardcore viewers don't align with our
potential viewers?
We're going to break down in all this. What we need to do is just identify our
potential and our viewers. And I need to go a little bit more in depth,
which isn't until Section 3, believe it or not, into the depth of what our hardcore
viewer is, then it leads into Section 4. So just for everyone,
I think there's a question on here, is Section 4 going to be redone? Section 2, 3,
4, possibly 5, and 6 are going to be done in this group. So we're working pretty
hard to make that happen. Guaranteed Section 2, 3, and 4 will be done this group.
Ooh, I love that. Victoria, you're up, then John Santos.
Hello, thank you for taking my question. So working through the workbook, I had this
question in my group earlier this week, and I just want to make sure that I am
understanding it and that I'm not one or two or 10 degrees off. It's going to land
me in the left field somewhere. And so in the workbook, as we're going through the
psychographics of each of our, our viewers, just as you discussed, for potential and
active, there's, they're broken up into different, like, it's like it's a different
psychographic for each one. How does the, the psychographic change per viewer,
or is that going to be covered later on? Yeah, so we're only doing one persona.
So the assignment was one persona, and then I'm going to show you how to fill in
the persona right based on your information.
because I do trending to stuff, because it's already curated what I want to see. I
don't need to go down a rabbit hole. But when I do, that's that 20 % when I go
down the rabbit hole. Okay. Thank you so much. There we go.
John Santos, you are up. Then Josh Jones, and then I'm going back to the chat.
Daryl, amazing presentation. Thank you for but getting us started in the direction.
Come on, John. You're not supposed to say that. I was so bent on my core viewer
until I got on this call. I'm glad I did, so now I'm seeing it from a different
perspective. Don't ever think about the core viewer when it comes to the algorithm.
And the reason why is because the algorithm doesn't make any sense for the core
viewer. And let me kind of explain. So is there a YouTube channel that you watch,
like you're just hardcore? You're just like this, I will never miss a video. Maybe
Alex Harmosey or... Alex is perfect example. So Alex is great.
We've helped him with strategy and stuff like that, which is awesome, right? Here's
the thing. There's, the YouTube already knows that when there's an Alex video, you're
going to click on it. It could be the worst title. It could be the worst
thumbnail. It could be the worst whatever. You're still going to watch it. Okay.
So I need you to disregard that because that skews what we're trying to teach you.
Okay. If we focus only on that, then you're only to get that, right? And that's
when we need to understand how do we bring in more people? And the best way to
bring in more people is when you're actively looking at people that are not quite
your hardcore viewer yet, or even your core viewer. We're really kind of targeting,
hey, this is our first video they're ever watching. Okay, the biggest YouTubers.
Like, I'm telling you, they treat every video as if the new viewer is watching it.
And the reason why is because that is the new viewer that needs to convert into an
active viewer. Okay, the core viewer and the hardcore year will come with
consistency. The only reason why you're following Alex is he consistently brought you
value. And you're like, man, the value that he brought is probably more in a video
than people charging courses or in consultant. And that's why you're watching the
stuff. And then two, he has a very unique way to communicate, right? And he's as
authentic as he could possibly get. You know, he's in gym clothes. He has his
little nose thing, whatever, you know, and he's just telling you how it is. And
that, that's Alex, right? And so that's the consistency that we're looking for. And
that's why we don't focus in on core or hardcore, because we'll get to that later.
Horrible. So that leads me to my first question. So I got two, but the second
one's easier for you to understand. The first one is, are we shooting for a 50 -50
new viewer, returning viewer? Would that be like the Holy Grail? No, 80 -20. We'll
talk about 80 20 rule later. But yeah, 80. So 80 % new, 20 % returning?
Yep. Okay. And then when it comes to like advertising, you mentioned something about
like never advertiser boost a video. If an advertiser wants access to a video to
promote it, is it okay to leave it unlisted on the channel and promote it? No, I
just haven't put it on a different channel. Like I would not, not do it.
There's not a world that I do it. Okay, perfect. Thank you, Dary. Appreciate it.
Love it. Then we're going to Josh Jones right now, and then I'm going back to the
chat for Tony and Vanessa, and I'm Chris Duncan and their questions.
I think wheelchair dad had an earlier one that I held off on too, so let's just
make sure that he's there too. I'll go find that one and do that one next up
after Josh. Hey, Josh. Josh and Aubrey here. So we have been shorts creators and
we're trying to get into the long form. But looking at all of our analytics, we
have 7 million returning viewers, 20 million new viewers. So like it looks like it's
great. But our avatar, our viewer, is 88 % watching on their phone,
90 % seeing it from the short speed and they're middle -aged women who don't watch
long form. So I'll disagree. I'll disagree with that completely.
I don't even need to look at anything. They do watch long form. It's just a
different value prop. You just got to understand the value prop. Maybe in the type
of content you're creating for them, there's a misinignment.
But I've literally helped channels that are short form go to long form like I'm a
master at that and it's really trying to understand what the value prop is because
what the value prop is like what would you say your value prop of your short form
content is right now we're a cute family with good values entertainment entertainment
it's entertainment right so it's like oh that was cute and they swipe just as fast
as they watch right yes Because if the bulk of your videos come with the short
feed, it's not from the page itself. They're not swiping right and going deeper with
you. And so that's the whole thing is it's a part of the feed experience. And all
they're looking for is just like, oh, that resonates with me. I want to become a
solid family or, you know, oh, that reminds me with my family or my family sucks.
I wish that I was part of this family. Like that's what it is. But then, too,
when you look at the other stuff, it could be the age of it. You might say that
it's, it's older or female, but it could be their kids watching it too, because
like kids don't have their own account. They might use mom's phone. There's a lot
of things that you can look at to have a little bit more clarity. We'll get
clarity on it and we'll also get a good understanding with the value proposition for
your long -form content. Okay, so should we create content for those viewers we
already have, or should we shift our content to a different viewer? You're not going
to shift anything that you're doing because you've grown. Is that correct? Right,
but we're not doing long form. No, no, but hold up. But you still grew,
right? Yes. But not every video popped off.
shorts we do really well, but long, our long form. No, no, hold on. Hold on. Just
short form. Not every short that you made just got bazillion views, right? Well,
they will on other platforms, but not on you. I'm talking YouTube. This is only
YouTube. But I'm saying is not all the short form content is getting a whole bunch
of views. Is that correct? Yeah. Okay. We're going to show you how to bring value
in so they will.
You just need to understand what their value is, and it's that whole content
strategy. We're going to get in depth with it. And it doesn't matter if it's short
form or long form. Okay, short form is harder to get loyalty. Just to let you
know, harder to get loyalty. Can be done, but it's harder. What we're trying to do
is get loyalty. That's what you're lacking. You focus then on creating long form
right now because That's been like one of our biggest. Anyone that has only done
shorts first, you're going to need to have a plan to do long form if you desire
to go down that route. I would literally come up with both a short because shorts
are easier to create than a long form and a long form. So you can't do two
videos. It would just be two separate videos that we'd be doing, but we need to
take it through the channel jumpstart system.
trust me it will it will it is it just a shift um because because like as a
creator with family like i've done probably more family content you know that we
talked before but it's like i've done more family content right and and there's a
value proposition that has occurred okay um and it might be the warm fuzzies okay
great okay or the people want to see what it's like with people that have kids
okay it's like or people want to see in a traditional marriage because they might
only have a single mom or whatever, whatever that is, right? So it's just like
they're looking for that value and then they're letting you know as well. Or it
could be a myriad of things. What we're trying to do is get the clarity of who's
actually watching content and why. And if we can do that, then we know what will
work as content. Okay. Yeah, that makes that makes sense. Great.
Thank you. Awesome. I want to make one other thing. You can move up the next
person, Justin. But every platform has a different algorithm. I'm only covering what's
on YouTube. Yeah, something will work on TikTok that will never work on YouTube.
YouTube is not TikTok. It's not IG. Some of it crosses over, but to have
consistent, we've got to understand what YouTube's AI is looking for because it is
different from all the other metrics on it. And just because you might think that
similar audience, it's not, the audience on TikTok is not the audience on YouTube.
The audience on Instagram is not the audience on YouTube. That's why a lot of IGers
have a hard time coming on to YouTube, where a lot of TikTok is actually difficult
to come on to YouTube is because they're looking at it through that lens and they
have no freaking clue what they're talking about. They have no freaking clue what
they're doing. They think, oh, I'm popular over here. I should be able to be
popular over here and it doesn't work. And the reason why is because YouTube's more
established and refined and their algorithm is really good at getting new potential
viewers to have and be satisfied on consistent viewership. And if you figure that
out. That's why this training is so important is really shifting your mindset on
this. That was deep. Thank you. Okay, wheelchair dad asks,
did he say we're only supposed to do the core viewer before Wednesday in the
workbook? Yeah, you're only supposed to do your potential viewer.
Like who's going to be your viewer, not your core, not your hardcore. Just fill out
that avatar. That's all I want, just that one persona before Wednesday. Because when
Wednesday comes in, we're doing Q &A on Section 2, okay, which is halfway done.
The other half will be on Wednesday, and you're going to get that in that training.
Love it. Jeffrey T. You hit on traffic sources. Oh, by the way, he's the live
stream strategy. You hit on traffic sources of browse, search, and external. My
largest source is channel pages, which you didn't really speak about. How does
channel pages play into this? Is it just my super fans? Generally,
it is your super fans. And I did cover it. I just didn't go way in depth on it.
Because if you really look at the amount of video views that YouTube's going to
help the viewer discover, it's never going to be through channel pages. It just
doesn't. Like, YouTube doesn't use that as a discovery point of promotion. It just
doesn't, okay? It's more about where they watch it, and channel pages is where they
watch it. So I would say it's almost similar to search. They're just doing a
different way to search. They're probably searching for your channel and then going
to the channel pages and then watching. Love it. Tony and Vanessa, can you touch on
creating evergreen content versus trending content and the balance you should have for
both on your channel? Yeah, Section 4. It's just Section 4. We're going to do
Section 4, Section 8 on that. It's your content strategy. What I just want you to
do is like don't look at trending or evergreen yet. What we want to do is like
who's going to find value?
because the best way to get trending people to click is when you bring in value
immediately and how to keep a trending video to come Evergreen is providing value.
Like YouTube will go find the person that will find value in it. So that's all
we're trying to do right now. Awesome. Before I kick it back to John Speed,
Arrunga, and then I'm Chris Duncan. I got one more question in the chat, and then
we'll go to those those three. Lakespeed Jr. What about embedded videos?
Is that an issue? Embedded videos is an external traffic source. YouTube does not,
you won't even, you might get a view on an embed that never translates over to
YouTube. So YouTube doesn't put that as a part. It's very suspicious of an embed.
They don't, they don't like it in the sense of discovery it does show up uh it
did like
Hey, Daryl. Yo. Yeah, just a quick question. What if the type of value proposition
that I think or I want to that the viewer would like is actually different from
the value proposition of the viewer? Like, say that I want to give like an
education type of value proposition, but the viewer intent is different from that.
How do we see that? And is that something that... It would be disjointed.
And so there's going to be friction. If you have friction, guess what? You're not
going to grow. Sure. If there's a friction point. So what we need to do is come
in line. So we either need to attract the audience that would want to find that
value proposition that you're looking to provide and I want to come back to you
consistently. And so we're looking at it through that lens. But what I need to say
this to you specifically, but I want everyone to hear, don't get hung up on the
value you want to bring. What we want to do is understand the value of the viewer.
And then you're going to make decisions of how to present it. And I'm going to
open your eyes because I've literally had this before where they says, yeah, this is
what I want. And what they really wanted as a creator is to do more. And they
wanted to do it. They just didn't know it until I actually showed them the path.
And when they had the path, that's when everything transformed for them. Because it's
like HopeScope, for example, she was doing leggings reviews. Okay. Why? Because it
brought in 20K a month. You know, she had an affiliate, right? She just wanted to
jump off a bridge. Why? Because she just couldn't, I mean, she had more leggings
than any person in the history of right sure um but that's not what she wanted to
do she wanted to inspire young girls to yeah to do more okay great she loves
fashion okay great we moved we moved over to that she saw the presentation on it
it helped elevate her her focus and then that's when she's just blowing up um and
so i don't want you to get so caught off on oh my values only this and this way
i want to do it i just want to open your eyes because I think you can do both.
You just need to know how to package it right. And then so how to fulfill on that
value. Quick follow up question. What if the value proposition that we believe we're
bringing for the viewer and what they want is different from what we're actually
bringing? How do we like self -reflect and internalize that? So we're going to plan,
execute, analyze, and adjust. That's a jump starter away. You're going to plan.
You're going to execute on something and the data does not lie. Okay. And then
based on that data, you're going to need to make a decision. Just like YouTube did
as a company, they had to make a decision. Do we continue to be?
here's the pattern in and this is what they find valuable in and that's where
everything actually starts to give you clarity as a creator gotcha okay that makes
sense thank you awesome okay RJ you are up
hey there old no what's on man good man thanks so much for this great amazing
information and it's it's definitely great to kind of go through and kind of
understand the stuff that you're kind of doing wrong and whatnot but my question i
have two questions is the potential viewer and the active viewer um are correlated
to i mean this is a stupid question like you said the from the analytics the
unique views that are coming are your potential views or substantially maybe those
are the potential views and the active views are also in that in that realm, I'm
assuming. Correct. Because like anyone that would find it interesting, they just need
to see it, would be a potential viewer. Whether they just clicked on one video to
watch or they would be the person that would click on the video to watch. Okay,
awesome. And then that needs to be it to the next question is that because I've,
I mean, I'm doing the kid space, because I've done a lot of videos and I see this
pattern where there's a lot of unique viewers,
to those people who are in need in that value that you're talking about,
proposition. Let me say it like this. His content can be either the most difficult
content to create or the easiest content to create. You just need to understand the
intent of the viewer and their parents. And so when you're coming and knowing what
it is and you can deliver it consistently. There might be a pattern in your best
performing videos. We need to analyze that. And in fact, that's one of the things
that I'm going to share with you how to pick your video is like really look in
your library and see what's getting bringing you consistent views. Let's have ideas
around that. You're going to hear that very specifically, right? Yeah. But in in a
lot of cases, we have a jump starter that that, you know, was in the kid's space
and wasn't seeing a lot of growth. However, they found that taking something scary
but making it more fun and pleasant and more like a human to kind of normalize it,
it actually got more views. And so that became a content strategy around his channel
and blew you know, millions and millions and millions of views, you know, and
millions of subscribers. That's, that's how it works. And so once you understand the
value, it can also understand how to, how to replicate the content, but there's also
theming around it.
Awesome, man. That's great. And I know exactly what you're talking about. Thank you
so much.
Okay, Chris Duncan, you are up and then I'm going to the chat.
Behoi, long time listener, first time caller here we go. I have a lot of clients
in my CRM and I email text them the YouTube links to my new videos.
Therefore, my main traffic stores is external. Should I not send these emails texts
to my clients? You can, But it's more of a timing and sequencing thing.
You've got to let YouTube do its thing. After YouTube does its thing, then you can
do it. And we'll get a lot more in depth on our content release strategy of it.
But the goal is to get new clients and customers that are not in your CRM to be
in your CRM. Is that not correct? Yes, sir. Okay. The best way to do that is have
YouTube go find it for you.
Understand. Thank you. Over. That was really hard for Myron Golden to do. Like he's
like, oh, it doesn't make any sense. I'm like, trust me, your cells of who your
customer is, you don't even know who your customer is because you pretty much told,
this is my customer, instead of literally seeing who is your customer. And his now
customer avatar is based off his viewer avatar, and I mean, some of it's like 4
,000X on some of the stuff that he's been doing.
Love it. Okay, to the chat. We've got Yvette.
I have viewers in the same niche, but appear to want different info. I plan to
start a new channel to cater to both groups. What would you do, Darrell? No, I
don't, don't ever start a channel to more than one group.
Like, that's not good. Because then you have a split audience. We don't want a
split audience. We want someone that will consistently watch every single one of your
videos. That's what we want. We'll get to it. Some of you might have a split
audience right now. We'll talk about how to fix that. The fastest way to growth is
when someone doesn't skip your videos. They want to watch every single one.
Awesome. Tammy, I have an ideal client avatar that I love to work with and want to
evolve slash expand the conversation I'm having with them. How much of this is
YouTube leading or deciding who I attract and serve versus who I actually want to
work and serve and serve and how?
I feel like I that was asked and answered based off of Chris's thing.
But let me just say it this. Do you want to impact people's lives?
And if you do,
why would you limit who you can impact?
That's the difference of what we're doing is if YouTube can figure out who finds it
valuable, it's going to elevate everything. And trust me, like I literally, like we
have a jump starter, did a podcast, his podcast wasn't growing. And I'm like,
this is why you need to do it. He came on and did it. Not only that channel
went, but then his other channels went too because we forced him because there was
a different viewing proposition that went from there.
That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. Like for me, we
want to impact the world. And so let's figure out who will find this valuable and
then create an offer around that the people that find it valuable enough that
they're a core or hardcore viewer and then the transaction is very easy very easy
and and um i want you to to understand this you can have a filtering process
channel jumpstart has a filtering process i don't want to work with toxic people i
don't want to work with negative people there are some people that have the tendency
to be toxic when they're surrounded by other toxic people. So I don't want to
create that culture. I want to push them way out. They can go figure out where
they do it. They can find other toxic people to be a part of it, right? Okay,
great. That's my filter. Everything else is that they're bringing positivity to the
world through their content. It's going to be some value. I'm going to help them as
long as they're not toxic, as long as they're not negative. Love it. Okay, Shavcom,
then Mr. Coben.
Hey, how's it going, Daryl? How's everything? Doing great. Good great. What's
cracking, man? So I've been trying to target my potential viewer. I took some
content inspiration ideas from the inspiration tab, from my analytics. And it took me
on a different route in terms terms, instead of just focusing on grants and funding,
it went towards political ideas and mostly just being critical. I'm apolitical myself,
but I went to try the, here's the problem. Here's the problem with YouTube's data
and creators. And you've literally created a landmine situation because of what people
watch. There's other content of what they watch and they says, oh, if you do more
like this, then it's going to lead that type of view. That's not necessarily the
case. It could have been a video or a short that is literally doing that,
and that's why the idea is. What I don't want you to do is do it is do it. I'm
going to teach you the way that I do it. That's what we're doing in section three
and four. So what we're going to do is I'm going to show you exactly what to do
and you don't need to worry about looking at the ideation tab on YouTube. Okay.
Thank you. Yep.
Awesome. Mr. Cobin, you are up.
Hey, they're all. Hey, how are we doing? I'm good, man. All right. So the last
time we spoke, you said to me that I should stay in the UK. Here's the thing,
there. I got really bored, So I took a trip.
In this trip, I met physically, I think I have met my avatar in real person, in
real life. If not one, a couple of hundred of them, actually. And the way that
they were talking about, my content made me realize that they were the right people.
Now, what I want to know is, should I question them, get ideas? I've used them
like a filter. I think more you understand who they are as a person, maybe not get
ideas, but just get them as a person and what they find valuable. I think it's
great. But let me kind of clarify when I said stay in the UK. I don't want you
to spend a ton of money to bring in content. What I want you to do is be who
you are because they're interesting enough. You just need to bring in the value
proposition, which you've done a great job. Like seriously, I Don't lie to you.
Your content's a freaking amazing.
And you're already responding to people. It's just you haven't been discovered yet.
Sometimes it just takes a little bit of time, right? So the latest video is kind
of flying, well, in one day. So that's the one I said. That's the same avatars. So
I'm just wondering whether... But all we need to do is get more clarity of that.
That's all we need to do, right? Because where I would say you're weak,
like out of everything is not your storytelling, okay, okay? I think your click is
a little weak and then, too, pulling them in faster.
So you'll see in your analytics that you do have good retention once they commit to
you. We need to get them to commit deeper. And so that comes from, you know, them
really resonating with a video and then they follow up with another video and
they're like, oh my gosh, this is so great. And then they go from a new viewer
into a returning viewer and then returning the viewer into a consistent viewer. Okay.
That's what I'm working on anyway at the moment. That's that. Interview as much as
you can. Yep. All right. Appreciate that. Thank you.
Awesome. Going to go back to the chat. We've got Tyler And then after tag, going
back to the hands raised. It's a little long, Daryl. If you know what your vision
and mission is, the backbone of your motivation, your purpose, that should be the
audience we choose to focus on. If we have a split audience, yeah? For example,
my channel is about adrenaline things that make me happy and feel alive. I love
sharing that. But I believe that after doing my vision and my mission, I came to
realize that therapy and healing pottery gives me changed my life is it uh it was
pivotal so i would assume i need to possibly change from adrenaline art studios to
something more like uh mui which means to be still in japanese or something like
that
uh don't don't Tyler, don't be so granular on your channel name that brings value.
Nobody cares about that. They're never going to look at your channel name. They're
going to look at that thumbnail and that title. And this is,
I really like this guy. I want to go deeper with him, right? And it doesn't matter
what the name is. And then that no love and dress. Okay, what was that guy's name
again? I want it shows up. Oh, yeah, I really like this guy. Okay, right? Until
they know who you are, right? And so don't look at the name per se yet.
It could be a branding thing that you need to do. I'm not saying not to do it.
I'm just saying, let's focus in on the viewer and the intent and the click,
and then we can go a little bit deeper. Keep in mind, there's been YouTubers that
shift their channel content, but never change their channel name because it's not not
as relevant it's just who they are but we can get into a little bit deeper you're
going to actually get more value out of section three than than most people and and
the reason why is because I think I would go back through this training go about
the escapeism I think there's a lot of people with mental health that's just looking
to escape or just to relax and and but yet they love the beauty of where you're
going so it might not be the adrenaline portion of getting there that could live on
a different channel but it's more the the act of or the intent of or the
soothingness of and so we can get into that for sure there we go okay Jonathan
you're up and then Jose right after
you You know, Jonathan. Hey, Daryl. Thank you so much for this today. It cleared up
so much of things that I've been confused about for a long time. Hey, Jonathan, you
know what everybody should do? What's that? Not listen to anyone else about the
algorithm. And just focus in on that because, like, there's so much misinformation
out there. And Justin Smith had to actually learn by sad experience,
too, when he first got hired. But it's like when you actually understand what the
algorithm cares about, which is the viewer, and you take it through that lens, it
just gives you the clarity that you can be consistent. So I did that more for
everything, not you, but I'm just saying, hey, the clarity is it's all about the
viewer. That's all we care about. We need to understand them better. The better that
we understand them, the easier it is to predict to bring them value.
That's, yeah, I mean, that's for me. It goes right into my question. And it's been
touched on a little bit already, but essentially I didn't know what I was doing.
And I started doing Redstone tutorials on my channel for Bedrock Edition because it
was bringing views was my thinking, well, I built the channel up to 15 ,000
subscribers full of 15 ,000, well, we'll say 14 ,900 people who only come to me when
they need a tutorial. It's not the value and it's not the intent that I want. I
don't know if I can agree with that completely. I think maybe the bulk of them do
that, but there might be a subset of people that do something differently, right? So
I think it's just more,
you know that that is an obstacle or something there. And so it's just like, how
do we get them to go deeper, right? Yeah. And that's,
I guess, exactly the question is, is it possible to change over the intent of the
entire channel like that? I mean, how many, how many views did you get in the last
seven days? Because of my health, I haven't uploaded in a while i've been in a
really bad position yeah how many views did you get uh my tutorials i'm getting
maybe five thousand in the last 28 days on tutorials that are like three four years
old yeah you you could you could change the whole viewership in one video
so like you're not there's not a lot of views uh to fight for in fact it you
could get that in an hour, you know, once they find the right video. So. Okay.
Yeah. So don't stress out about it. Just do, like when you do yours, I think you
don't do the ones that are currently watching your content. It's the ones that you
want to do. You know, who is that, who's that avatar breakdown for the viewer?
Okay. So just kind of make the shift and bring them along with me.
I think there's a, I think there's a big group of people that if you would make
your value propositions so that they can go deeper with it, they would. Okay.
Thank you. Yep. Hey, Jose, you are up. Then Mo.
I think, make sure you get Taylor, Taylor Sills question,
too. Looking for it. too. Looking for it. Taylor, if you could just post it in
there again, that'd be great.
Can you hear me? Yep. Jose, how you doing? Oh, good, good. This is Dr. T here
from Lisbon. Great presentation there. I have two questions. I'm very confused.
So when I go to advanced analytics in the last 365 days,
my viewer is
25, 34, age, 100%. And I already removed and listed all my shorts as Justin
recommended. But, you know, the algorithm is totally confused. So what should I do?
So the algorithm's not confused, first off. It's just you had some videos that
responded to different demographics. And when I do my presentation on Wednesday about
how I look at demographics, it's going to give you clarity of how to look at your
demographics because I really don't look at demographics. I really don't care about
demographics like some creators do. What I want to do is it gives me context of
how I create things. So when you create things for a specific demographic,
you're going to have a higher likelihood for them to respond either positively or
negatively. So give you an example, in Hope Scopes presentation, when she was doing
leggings reviews, and I know this seems disgusting, but she had, you know,
like 55 % female, 45 % male on lagging reviews.
Well, the value proposition for females was They're looking for some cute leggings.
And for the males, they wanted to see a girl in leggings, two different value
products. And so when it was catered to more for the female, she's like 90 % or 92
% or 93 % female now. And she's responding really well.
So it's just more contextually understanding how to create content for the intended
viewer. So in your scenario, what you did you look at is I would just only focus
in on, don't focus in on shorts on your long form content of the videos that
performed really well and see who those demographics are and then probably do your
viewer persona breakdown of that person.
And then we can get more clarity. I'll show you how to do it. It's part of the
exercises in section three. Okay, that's very helpful. The last question is,
does my viewing pattern as a viewer affects the recommendations of YouTube to my
videos?
Everything impacts viewer recommendations. So it's like, I only care about last 90
days.
We'll get into the specifics of that. But you're like one video that pops off that
could shift what your viewer recommendation will be. So don't worry about that per
se right now. What we want to do is just really make some good understanding of
who we're making content for and then go through the process that I'm going to
teach you with video
Okay. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
There we go. Okay, coming up to... Is Taylor's question real quick? Yes, we're going
to do that one. And then we're going to back to Mo, Casey, and Sophia to wrap it
up. Taylor, we talked about viewer intentions related to the video content types,
educational intent, entertainment, and escapism, and connection, et cetera.
Is it possible and okay to create content that can fill multiple of these pools for
the viewer? And will that be successful? Like, can it be educational feel good at
the same time? Will the viewers continue to return? Is there a way to do this
well? Or should you aim, excuse me, or should you aim to only fill one of these
viewer intentions okay uh taylor that's probably one of the better questions that
that was ever asked uh in this section and so congratulations on that i love that
uh but i want to i want to give it to you in real world uh experience that you
understand okay uh you have a service dog when you're out in public you get
different types of reactions with that service dog and and And I would assume,
I don't know this, but you might have on, you know, on the dog itself, don't pet
or something. A lot of service dogs say, don't come a pet. And so I want you to
understand it from the people's reactions to there's certain people that love dogs.
You might have a dog breed that they really, really love, right? Or your dog's
really cute. And so that's a certain type of viewer, right? And then there's another
viewer that's very curious. Well, what's going on? I wonder what's here. Like, why
are they coming on the plane? Like, there might be multiple reasons, right? And they
start to understand things. So I want you to view it like that. All we're trying
to do is, is you can, you can actually use multiple ways of viewers' intent,
but there's going to be one intent that brings them through the door. Okay. Like,
Like the people that come and talk to you, they will tell you, oh, I came here
because I was curious on this. Or what's your dog's name or whatever? You know,
they might like dogs and then they go in deeper. You can provide value in different
ways. It might start out with educational, but it might be inspirational, right? And
you might have two different value props in it. And that's okay because the value
props work together. But what we're trying to do is what would be the intent of
the viewer out of the gate. And then as they watch more content, their intent
changes, and we'll talk about that. So please,
what I want you to do is just look at the type of content that brings value to
you and what your intent is. And then don't get hung up on this yet, because the
section is only halfway done. I just needed to give you how YouTube operated so
that we can get to the really important stuff. Awesome. Mo,
you are up, then Casey Meehan.
What's going on, Mo? Hey, what's going on, man? How's it going? So it's me and my
daughter, a 14 -year -old Sarah here. She helped me co -create our animation, Wiserbot.
We had a quick question, actually. It's, we are like through the analytics we're
seeing that I think that question was already answered by Nicholas thanks for that
but the follow -up question was like I see that it's 18 year old to 54 year old
that's like who's watching my animation and it's made for kids so that's the first
question it's like what do I how do I know exactly where the age group is because
maybe they're watching on their parents' phone is Sarah right there with you? Yeah
she's say hi hi hey hey Hey, sir, who do you think the viewer is? The viewers?
Yeah, who do you think that? Who's watching your content?
Like 25 -year -old to 54 -year -old. No. Who do you think it is?
Who do I think parents, mostly people who like, so like the teenagers or people who
don't have access to their phones, they would go on their moms or parents' phones.
Okay, so let's talk about that. Do you think someone that borrow their mom's phone
or they're on their mom's account would like your content? Yes. And why would they
like your content? Because I think it's very, like, funny and engaging in a way.
Okay. So you find it funny, right? Yes. Does the stuff that you find funny,
the same thing that your finds funny um i no i don't think not really okay all
i'm saying is this don't listen to what your dad said about analytics and i want
you to focus in on what you like on the content okay and and other people that
would like that type of content does that make sense do you do you watch do you
watch any other animations or anything else out there?
I do watch cartoons, but those were from like Nickelodeon. It's okay. What cartoons
do you like? SpongeBob. Okay. Let's talk about SpongeBob for a second.
Did you know Wendy's came out with a collaboration? You can buy the Craby Patti's
at Wendy's right now? Really? Yeah, I'm seriously. You can have the crabby Patty
sauce. So, Okay. You see what I just did with you is we bonded over it because I
love SpongeBob. I think it's witty. But I can tell you the jokes of SpongeBob will
resonate with you and other jokes will resonate with your dad or me.
And the reason why we might find both funny, but there's something pretty crazy in
or there might be something that more response to you because you process things
differently than your dad because you're a different generation. And then two, you're
in a different stage of life. And so what I want you to do is, and Mo, this is
really, really important for you, okay, is she's your gatekeeper, okay? And your
daughter's your gatekeeper. I said, cool, sorry. Okay. And I'm saying is what she
will find good will it can perform what we need to do is is understand kind of
the the guardrails that we're to keep it on and well i'll teach you all that like
it's going to come up in section uh the end of this section and then section three
more specifically in section four for you okay i just a quick follow for that to
that one darrell we're posting we're not posting as children's content and i know
that that's like a red line it doesn't matter it doesn't matter it doesn't matter
perfect because because because Because it's just like, from YouTube's perspective,
she's 14, she's not a child. A child's under 13 for YouTube. Okay,
perfect. Don't, don't view it that way. But I'm just saying if people like her
would watch that animation, you have a higher likelihood to succeed because if she
likes it, there's a good probability that they would like it. Okay, perfect. Thank
you so much, Daryl. Thank you. Yep.
There we go. Casey, you are up. And then last but not least, Sophia. Yo,
Casey.
Hey, Darrell. I just spent all morning diving into comments thinking that was my
guiding light for the avatar. And now I feel like that's maybe the core, maybe a
core viewer and not no, no, no, no. It's actually, it is, it is actually good.
You're doing good. You're just a little earlier than where I want you right now.
Okay. And it's not bad. Like, you're going to be going through a lot of comments
very specifically. So you kind of, you know, beat a lot of people to the punch.
But the difference is, is you got to now, when you see a comment, you might see
it differently. Yeah, that's what I was wondering if I should maybe apply that
filter of that's a core viewer versus maybe a potential or active or active? Or a
troll. Yeah. You got to put that in there. Yeah. And the best way to find value
is when there's a thread. And so if someone left a comment and people replied to
that comment and there's some depth in it, that's something that I would like
literally just be perked up and try to figure out what's going on. Awesome. That's
helpful. One quick other question. I just launched this email list so you're saying
maybe don't like maybe wait a few days let me let my video do its thing with uh
youtube and then do the email there's not a world that i would actually promote it
to an email list before 14 days wow okay and it might be even later but so maybe
one thing is i can post so i have the all the videos are in patreon the list is
the patreon I'll just put the video in there and it can kind of live totally
separately. How about, is that a bad idea? Oh, wait, wait, wait. So you're talking,
these are your early patrons. You're giving early access. Is that what you're talking
about? No, they're just, they're just folks. I was just going to be, they are
patrons. It's a list of patrons and I was just going to say, hey, I have a new
video. If that's the email list, you're okay promoting it. If it's a cold email
list, I mean, they're paying you for content.
So that's different. I would treat that as your, you're hardcore.
blah, blah, blah, and you don't even give them a link, then they go to YouTube,
they open it up, they search for you, they go click on it, and they're good to
go. That is the most organic way for the algorithm to start kicking in on them,
okay? Giving them the link is okay as long as they go deeper. So if they go on
and they watch and they jump off YouTube, that's not a session that YouTube will
basically say, huh, it's a direct view, and then they left,
we're not really going to go find a pattern of what they do. Okay. Now, if they
go back and they click on a video on the homepage or they go to YouTube, go to
the homepage and see your video, then that's a totally different thing. So it's
like, don't give them a link, say, hey, I got one up and go find it on you. I
think you can do both. I'm just saying, please just be cautious.
Like, what we want to do is have YouTube do its thing, but if it's already with
people that are paying you for content, there's a high likelihood they'll go watch
the whole thing. Right. Okay. Cool. Well, I'll just test it and kind of experiment.
It's good to know that, though. That's very eye -opening that that could be negative.
Awesome. Thanks, man. Yep. Okay. Last but not least, Sophia.
Hey, everybody. Hey, Carol, so I was thinking about the part of your presentation
where you mentioned meeting the viewer where they're at. So if they're watching on
their phone, they're probably, you know, engaging in like shorter, more snackable
content. If they're watching on their connected TV, you're probably going to be
watching something. They're more likely to watch something that is over 20 minutes.
Is it possible to have a successful channel where you do both? Or is it best to
really think about that.
And so what we want to do is how do they discover you? How do they watch and how
do they re -engage with you? So they might come back three or four times to finish
a video, right, if there's enough value. And then too, part of it would be maybe
they start on mobile and then end up on TV. We don't know yet. All we got to do.
How do you validate that? I will literally show you how to do all that. That is a
part of this. And believe it or not, the example that I'm going to give you is
probably the best example of how to validate it and the ways you can validate it.
And that's coming up on Wednesday. So you're going to have a copy of that.
But the reality, though, is you just need to know who's watching your content to
the depths of, you know, how they tick and anticipate them. That's all we want to
do.
And then on Wednesday, will you also go through how to validate who that potential
viewer is? Because I have in my head who each of these people are. I'm going to
only give you ways to get more data, but it's about data collection and having a
hypothesis and then putting that hypothesis and testing it. Makes sense.
And we'll do that as a part of plan because that's that's the stage we're planning
and when we execute it we're going to be a part of our plan and and believe it
or not it could just be a sentence that you say in a video
okay i'm going to show you some examples of that but that's part of the plan of
when you're creating your content you're going to be more strategic i can promise
you this sophia you're going to be more strategics than you've ever been before
because you're working with me. Because we're not doing things reactionary. We're
being proactive and intentional. And when we're intentional, all it takes is just a
little bit of treating the viewer as a viewer instead of just content is content.
And how do we get them to engage? I'm going to show you how to do that. Okay.
Awesome. Thanks. Great.
There we go. Daryl, all the questions that we got for time for today. Yeah,
so this is what's going to happen. Wednesday, you're going to get another Q &A. So
please, if you haven't gone through the information that we gave out last week,
please go through it, please do your homework assignment. Please get clarity on the
homework assignment. I only want you to do one avatar of your potential viewer. I
just need you to go in depth on that, right? And that's someone that could watch a
video. And then, too, we're going to answer all the questions when it comes to
that. I think we answered some. If some of them, if it doesn't go longer, it's
fine. But that's what you get with this group, because I told you we're going to
go a lot longer. We're going to take a little bit more time. I want to give you
the clarity. But this is what the success is when you understand the viewer you can
understand how to make the viewer want to click want to watch want to watch longer
and and then to earn earn their trust because you're going to be consistent because
once you understand what they find valuable and you're bringing that consistently then
youtube can go find more people like that and that creates that feedback loop so
guys thank you so much we'll see you on Wednesday

PT6

Hey Jumpstarters, we are ready to start talking about your viewer avatar. Now
remember, the epicenter of everything on YouTube, the epicenter of Channel Jumpstart
is the viewer. We always want to look at the viewer. We want to understand what
motivates the viewer. And This is an exercise that you need to pull out your
workbook because we're really going into the psychographics of that viewer. Kind of
what these viewers do from day to day and basically want to have a hypothesis of
who this viewer is. Now, if you go ahead, pull it out, what you want to do is
pull to the section here called Your Avatar. You see that? And what we're going to
do is use this and I want you to basically take the data that you have.
If you're starting a brand new channel, then you need to make guesses of the type
of viewer that would be interested in type of your content. If you have data, use
some of your data to basically use this to fill out. But ultimately, I want you to
start filling out these things. Now, the most important one that you need to do is
not demographics. We actually have a video on that a little bit later in this
section that's going to really help you understand demographically how to connect with
someone through the type of wording and the way that you communicate and then maybe
even the way that you edit because just different generations process things
differently and so you have to communicate it differently what i want to do though
is focus in on the cycle graphics basically what they do but you know they're their
motivators their fears and beliefs their attitudes their lifestyles basically i want
to know their goals and aspirations so I can connect with them deeper. And then,
two, I want to start thinking about how they wake up in the morning and what they
do during their day. What they do online, what they do offline. I want to be able
to have a hypothesis of who this person is so how I'll have clarity on how to
communicate to them. Now, one of our alumni in Channel Jumpstar has, was at a point
where they were really frustrated with what they're doing and they really were
demotivated. And ultimately, they led to a consultation that led to them coming into
Channel Jumpstart. And then they really, really focused in on who their viewer they
wanted. And they started communicating. And as they started to communicate to them,
not only in the videos, but the type of videos that they were doing, that's when
they blew up. Literally had this change of their life, change in their business,
because they actually found the audience that they could bring value to. And they
could bring value consistently. So I asked her to be the keynote at Vids Summit and
she shared with the attendees of Vids Summit this whole training around her avatar.
Now what I want you to do is listen to it and watch it. And some of you were
actually there in person, but it's really important that you take your workbook out
and be able to write things down, write notes of things that you're getting because
what I want you to do is really hone in on this process of what you should do
for your viewer. And this is the best explanation of viewer avatar training and it
comes from HopeScope. Let's take a look. So you can see that first little peak
there, that's when I first started this pivot or this change in my content. And
over the course of a year, that gets me to that bigger pivot and things really
just blew up. That brings us to today. Things are still going awesome and I feel
so creative and free and connected to my audience. So how did I do it?
I figured out who was watching my videos. And this sounds really simple. At the
time I thought I knew, but I really didn't. So I did this really deep dive and I
found that Emma is watching my videos. This is Emma. She is about 22 years old.
She's either graduated college or just graduated. She loves just like comfy but
trendy clothing. The apps that she's on are up there. She loves her avocado toast.
Here are some of the shows she likes to watch. She has her tight -knit group of
friends. She's out at college, but not too far away from home because she's really
close with her family. She's in a serious relationship hoping to get engaged soon. I
know so much about Emma, but the thing about Emma is she's not real. This is
actually an AI person, but Emma represents my core viewer who I make content for,
or at least I did it at this time. Emma's kind of changed over the years, but how
did I come up with Emma is the question. And Emma could be a little bit older, a
little bit younger, but to get that core viewer, here's some of the things I did.
So you can obviously dive into your YouTube analytics and get a little bit of good
information, but really most of it came from my comment section and interacting with
my viewers through DMs and finding common patterns. I also noticed that when people
would come up to me in person, I'd try to like ask them as much about them as I
possibly could and learn about their fears, their hopes, their dreams, their hobbies,
what celebrities are they interested in, what movies are they watching?
of myself. So if I make content that I know my younger self would love, I know
that it's going to connect with my audience. And this could be your younger self,
your older self. It could even be based off of somebody that you know in real
life. So your homework is to figure out who is your Emma. I want you to find that
one core person that you're making videos for. And I promise this is going to
unlock everything. I have a list of hundreds of video ideas. And it's because I
know Emma so well, well now she's like
and it's important for you for growth. So if you want to succeed, you need to take
time, go through this process. And I want you to imagine who your viewer is and
how they process their day. What they do when they wake up to all the way when
they go to sleep, what they do online, offline. But more importantly, the
psychographics. This will actually help you know how to connect or where they will
find more value. And as they find value, that's when they're going to share. as
they share, guess what, guys, that's when you grow. That's when the YouTube algorithm
figures out, hey, it's all about the viewer. We're tracking the viewer. The viewer
responds very positively. There's other viewers out there like them, and then they're
going to share your content with them as well. So, okay, I can tell you here right
now. Pull out that notebook. This is going to take some time. This is something
that I always try to refine. I can tell you my process sometimes takes up to two
to three months to really hone in on my hypothesis to really know who this person
really is. And as I understand who this person is, that's when I can actually have
more predictable success.

PT7

Because what you're going to do is jump on Discord, you're going to connect with
your group, and you're going to help each other pull holes in your avatar and
better understand who your viewer is so that you can get them to watch your video,
and next, and more importantly, how to watch the next video. So get to it, jump on
Discord, and share with your group what you've discovered.

PT8

Good morning, everybody. My name is Hope. My channel is Hope Scope,
and welcome to my Ares Tour, except I'm not going to be singing. Instead,
I'm going to show you how I went from feeling totally disconnected with my audience.
After years of being on YouTube, I was creatively burnt out. I was frustrated. If
you look at my graph over here, I'm talking about that lower left corner some of
you might be in that position right now where I was just in a rut and I'm going
to show you how I was able to explode my channel now I'm at a billion channel
views five million subscribers and consistently getting millions of views on every
video so it's going to be fun I'm so excited to open up bit summit with you guys
this is going to be a great year Okay, so we got to start at the beginning. So I
got married, moved to Montana because my husband had a job there, and he was in
the car business. Any of you that have been in that business, you know somebody in
that business, it's very time -consuming. So he was gone a lot, but it was okay.
I kept myself busy. I was a dental assistant, actually, and I was going to school
at a community college, But I was really, really lonely because I was super far
away from all of my friends, my family. Everybody was back home still at college,
living their best life. And I was in this new tiny town. And most of you probably
know where Montana is. If you don't, it's way up north. It's basically Canada. And
fun fact about Montana, there are twice as many cows in Montana as people. So,
needless to say, it wasn't super easy to make friends. so I'm trying
One night, I was like, something has to change. And I remembered one of my old
college roommates mentioning, I love to watch these makeup tutorials on YouTube.
And I was like, I'm going to check that out. Because I grew up with YouTube, but
the YouTube I grew up with, I would like watch music videos or like Harry Potter
puppet pals. Did anybody watch that? Where are they? We need to get them to come
to Ben Summit. But there's this whole other, like, section of YouTube that I had
never unlocked. So I pulled it up and I fell down the road.
And it was really awesome. And then one day, I was like, what if I make a video
and just see what happens? And so we went on this family vacation to Lake Powell.
And I don't know if any of you have been. If you haven't put it on your bucket
list, it's amazing. It's on the border of Arizona and Utah. And it's basically the
Grand Canyon full of water. It's so cool. But once again, I had no friends to tell
about this cool trip. So I filmed it. I spent days and days editing it. I watched
YouTube tutorials on how to edit, and I posted this video. This is my first ever
YouTube video, and I shared it to Facebook in the hopes that one of my old friends
from college or even high school would see this video and be like, hey, how you
been? And it would kind of like open up a conversation. That did not happen. Nobody
really commented except my grandma, who was probably like, wow, what a handsome
husband of yours, something like that. But a couple weeks go by, and I go check on
this video, and guess how many views it had? 100. It didn't go viral.
That is not, that's not that type of story. But I opened up the video, and I went
to the comments, and there was this comment from Gail M. I don't know who Gail M
is. Gail M is a total stranger, but they left me the sweetest comment about how
the editing was amazing.
and it was all really bad. I've since deleted the videos, but I do have the
thumbnails, and they're so embarrassing. But I'm glad I have them. It's fun to look
back. I tried everything, I tried makeup, I tried food, and they were getting like
five views, 10 views. Nobody was watching. It all felt like kind of forced, but I
was still having a lot of fun, like editing these videos and just trying things
out. But a few months go by, like I said, I'm still working. I'm still going to
school. This is just kind of like a hobby at this point. And one day, after a few
months, I go to a hair appointment. And this is a really special hair appointment,
and it's not because my hair is really cute. It is. But this appointment is
important because I was talking to the girl that was doing my hair and she says,
hope, your leggings are always so cute. Where do you get them? Are they Athleta?
And I was like, no, they're actually Lulu Lemon. And she was like, okay, what's the
difference between Lulu Lemon and Athleta leggings? And it launched us into this
conversation for like 30 minutes about which leggings I like better and why, which
one's a better value. And I left that appointment and I was like, wait, maybe this
is a video idea. So I did it. I bought a whole outfit from Lou Lemon, whole
outfit from Athleta, and I made a little video comparing the two. Quality's not
good. I literally, I set my camera up, like, in front of a window, and that was
my lighting, just in my bedroom. But this video got a couple thousand views,
and I was like, okay, this was, like, helpful and interesting to people. Maybe this
is what I should talk about. This was a really good time, too, because at the
time, there was a lot of fitness influencers, there was a lot of fashion
influencers, but nobody was, like, in this niche that I found. So that was really
exciting. So I made a few more videos that brings us into error three and it's
leggings question mark because at this point I didn't know what I was doing, but I
was like I'm going to keep giving the people what they want So six months go by
after I make my first legging video I'm trying to stay consistent I'm probably
posting two to three times a month and finally after six months I hit 2 ,000
subscribers which was so exciting to me. And even more exciting, I made my first
$100, which as most of you know, that's like the threshold to like take your
payout. So that was cool. I was like, that's a pair of leggings that I can buy
with that money. So I keep making videos and I start to gain this community.
It goes from tens of views to hundreds of views to thousands of views. And part of
why that happened is because of something you've probably heard of, I did trend
jacking. And some people do this by putting like a YouTuber or a celebrity in their
thumbnail or taking something that's popular in media or pop culture. But what I did
is I picked brands that were really, really trendy at the time. Like Lulu Lemon was
blowing up. Jim Shark had like literally just launched. It was crazy. eBay wish .com.
These things were huge, so I was capitalizing on people that were searching for
these websites, finding my videos, and it was working really well. And at this point
in time, I decided it was time to hire my first employee. Here he is. This is my
dog Leo, and he's my co -host on my channel, but yeah, we kept making videos,
and this is the point where I started to feel my first frustration. Keep in mind,
these view numbers are a little inflated because this was six years ago, but my
videos at the time were getting like 50 ,000 views -ish, but everybody was asking,
like, we wanted Day in the Life of Leo, my dog, and I was like, okay, so I post
Day in the Life of my dog, and nobody watches it. It got like 10 ,000 views when
my review, two weeks before, got like 100 ,000. And I was like, what is going on?
Do these people actually not care about me? I was kind of sad. But after a little
while, I figured out, they do care about me. But the content has to appeal to them
first and relate to them first. So that was kind of the hack that I found is to
sprinkle in the HopeScope lore into a video that gave them a lot of value. So for
example, I have this swimsuit review where I took them on like one of my favorite
vacations. They got to know my friends a little bit, my family a little bit, but
in the end it was still a really helpful review. Same thing with that second one.
I like let them in on some movies and books that I really liked, but it tied back
to active wear, which is what they were subscribed for. So things are going good at
this point. I'm now being called the Legging Queen. People are really trusting my
reviews.
And I think the reason that people really trusted my reviews is I had a really
strong why. I saw my viewers as friends that I wanted to give really helpful
information to, so I'd constantly have these active war companies coming to me and
saying, hey, we'll pay you to do this review. And I was like, I don't want to be
paid. That defeats the purpose of giving this review to these people. So I did do
commission code. So that way, if people wanted to support me, they could use my
code, but never took any sponsored video deals. I had companies reaching out that
wanted me to be a sponsored athlete, and I just said no. And I was able to build
this really strong community because of that. Okay, so after two years of
consistently posting, at this point I'm posting every week, I finally hit 100 ,000
subscribers. and it's going well. I'm making $50 to $100 a day on YouTube.
I decided to quit my job because I was like, okay, I'm making as much or more as
a dental assistant as I am on YouTube, but I still stayed in school, which I was
going to school to be an accountant, which I think is kind of funny, because can
you picture me as an accountant? I'm like, hey, bestie, the IRS called and you owe
them $10 thousand more dollars. Love you.
I'm really glad I'm doing YouTube videos instead, but everybody told me like that's
a solid job. That's a stable job. So I stayed in school at this point still. Okay,
so now we're going to talk about how I go from those, do you see those tiny
little lines at the bottom there? And then there's that spike. I'm going to show
you how I did that. So this brings us to era five, and I'm like, oh,
this is a job. I had no idea. You could actually make money doing this. Okay, so
like I said, money's good at this point. I launched my own merch. That was going
great. I hired my husband to come help me on my channel, and eventually I did quit
school because things were going so well. I was like, school's always going to be
there, but this is a cool opportunity. Okay, so how did I get these spikes?
So I go from just reviewing brand after brand after brand to finding formats of
videos that are repeatable. So examples of that is I had this series that was the
worst rated. So I'd find a company, I would scroll around and find the absolute
worst rated products and then buy them because it was funny. But sometimes we'd find
some hidden gems or I had a series where I'd compare a cheap and an expensive
version of things and that was going great. I still do this to this day.
If you go to my channel, I can't tell you how many lost packages video you'll
find, viral TikTok products, lost luggage. Replicating content that works is a really
good strategy. Because if you think about it, if somebody comes to your channel,
they hit subscribe for a certain video, they want to see more of that video. So
That's something that really helps build community and keep returning viewers, not
just new viewers. But what happens when the formats stop working? And what I mean
by that is they stop working for you or your audience. And in my case, that was
starting to happen a little bit of both.
So I started to get a little too experimental. I feel like my thumbnails and my
video ideas just started to get a little weird because I was getting creatively
burnt out. I was like, I can't make reviews anymore. I got to try something new.
So I started making these weird videos. Like I went shopping all night long or I
don't know. The videos weren't great. My audience was not responding well to them
and views were just going down and down and down. That brings me to my sad girl
era. And this is, if you remember the graph in the beginning where things are just
really stagnant. And I will say one thing that I did through this period is I
stayed consistent. I kept posting. I know it's so easy when you get frustrated to
just want to give up and say, never mind, people don't like my videos, but I
stayed consistent for the people that were still there, and I think that was really
important. Okay, so as you can see, during my Legging era.
We've got some, like, variety in the graph. We've got some peaks. And then April of
2020, you can see it just completely die out. And I think there were a lot of
factors. The pandemic happened. People were not really caring so much about what they
were wearing and how they looked because they weren't leaving the house. But at this
time, I felt like so many other people's channels were exploding. So I was really
sad. I'm like, what am I doing wrong? And like I said, I was just burnt out. I
was like, if I have to make another legging review, I'm throwing this channel away.
Four years is a long time to talk about nothing but yoga pants. So it's
frustrating. I have my husband hired at this point, so we don't have a plan B.
Like, this was my idea for my career. I couldn't let it fail. And we found this
guy on YouTube called Daryl Eves, and we made a lot of money to get a consultation
with him, and I was hesitant. I was like, there's nobody that can tell me anything
I don't know about YouTube. I've been doing this for four years, thinking I was
some sort of expert. But we get on this call, I'm explaining how frustrated I am,
I'm saying things like the algorithm hates me, my audience hates me, and he just
said, Hope. Why do people watch your videos? And I said, well, because they want to
know what leggings to buy I guess and he said no hope why do they watch your
videos and I was like I don't know I guess it's because they trust me and they
like my opinion and he said that that right there so go make something about
something other than leggings and I was like ah it's that simple and that was
really all I needed was permission from somebody that it was okay to try something
new but I was very strategic about it. And now I'm going to bring you into
probably my favorite era, my hopeful era. And this is where things really turned
around for me. So I signed up for this course called Channel Jump Start, not
sponsored. They do have a booth here though, and they taught me some amazing things
about diving into analytics and really getting to know my audience to figure out
where to go from here. And I'm going to share with you some of the most important
things that I learned during this time. Okay, so you can see the flat, sad little
graph at the bottom. I have sad hope above it. That was my just frustration phase
where I'd post a video and get a few views and then it would just die. And it
got to the point where I was trying to post twice a week to save it. And that
didn't even fix it, like, it was just rough. So you can see that first little peak
there, that's when I first started this pivot or this change in my content and over
the course of a year that gets me to that bigger pivot and things really just blew
up that brings us to today things are still going awesome and I feel so creative
and free and connected to my audience so how did I do it I figured out who was
watching my videos and this sounds really simple at the time I thought I knew but
I really didn't. So I did this really deep dive and I
has her tight -knit group of friends. She's out at college, but not too far away
from home because she's really close with her family. She's in a serious relationship
hoping to get engaged soon. I know so much about Emma. But the thing about Emma is
she's not real. This is actually an AI person. But Emma represents my core viewer,
who I make content for, or at least I did it this time. Emma's kind of changed
over the years but how did I come up with Emma is the question and Emma could be
a little bit older a little bit younger but to get that core viewer here's some of
the things I did so you can obviously dive into your YouTube analytics and get a
little bit of good information but really most of it came from my comment section
and interacting with my viewers through DMs and finding common patterns I also
noticed that when people would come up to me in person. I'd try to like ask them
as much about them as I possibly could and learn about their fears, their hopes,
their dreams, their hobbies, what celebrities are they interested in, what movies are
they watching?
Also, my friends and family that watch my channel, I would ask them about their
life. And then internet research. So if you pick a certain demographic, you can just
deep dive on the internet and find out what they're into at the moment. Another
thing, this is a really good hack, especially if you're just starting out, Emma's
basically a younger version of myself. So if I make content that I know my younger
self would love, I know that it's gonna connect with my audience. And this could be
your younger self, your older self, it could even be based off of somebody that you
know in real life. So your homework is to figure out who is your Emma. I want you
to find that one core person that you're making videos for, and I promise this is
going to unlock everything. I have a list of hundreds of video ideas, and it's
because I know Emma so well. Well, now she's like Emory. I feel like she got a
little bit younger, but same thing. I know so much about her and her interests that
coming up with videos is easy at this point. It's fun. Okay, So,
and you want to know as much about them as possible because you want to figure out
what are their interests other than leggings or whatever your niche is. So here's an
example. These thumbnails are still really cringy. I'm so sorry. They're for
educational purposes only. But I went back to some of my lagging videos to see
which legging videos worked the best. And I noticed there was this trend.
This is just a couple of them, but any thumbnail or I guess video topic that I
used that referenced a celebrity people really liked to watch. I think they liked
the idea of this celebrity buys this product. What is it like if just a normal
girl buys the product and tries it out? So I noticed this trend and I was like,
okay, celebrities, clothing. And I recently heard that the Kardashians have a website
where you can buy their used clothes. So I went on the website. I took a huge
risk, and I spent a whole bunch of money buying the Kardashians used clothes. I got
something from each sister. It was so much fun to film. It was just like this
breadth of fresh air. I finally felt like I was able to be creative again and
finally talk about something other than just leggings. So I make this, I post the
video, and it performs as usual. But honestly, I was so excited because I was like,
okay, my legging community also liked this video. I think that's a win. So I
continue on. I go back to making a couple of lagging videos, but after two weeks,
I go and I check this Kardashian clothing video, and you can see the two week mark
there, it just takes off. And this has never, in my career, that had never happened
before. Because like I said, I would post these reviews, they'd get a lot of views,
and then they'd just die, because that product wasn't relevant anymore. But for the
first time ever, I posted a video that had these long legs and was, as you'd say,
an evergreen video. And not only was it getting a whole bunch of views, these were
people that had never seen my channel before. So I finally unlocked it. I was so
excited. So this brings us to our next era and I'm going to call it the big pivot
era and I'm using my thumbnail face because it just felt fitting.
So I'm going to show you exactly how I pivoted because it's easy to see people and
think, oh, that happened for them overnight or they were just lucky, but this was
very formulated. I'm going to show you. So here's month one, two, and three of my
pivot. The first month, you can see I did that Kardashian video I just showed you,
and then I did two legging videos. And I think this was important because I didn't
want my legging community to feel like I just abandoned them. So gave them two
legging videos, and then I did another experimental celebrity video. And this was a
YouTuber products. Okay, so that went well. Like I said, views are as normal.
Everything's okay. And then month two, same thing. Half the videos are leggings. Half
the videos are the new content, the pink content. And then month three, same thing,
half and half. But another important thing is in these blue videos, the old legging
videos, actually no, the pink videos, the new videos, I would still reference
leggings a lot. So that core audience was still getting what they signed up for to
an extent because there was like an element of activeware in those videos. Okay,
so that's month, one, two, three. Also, it's really interesting if you look, once
again, this is after several years, but the pink videos all have millions of views.
The blue videos have like hundreds of thousands, which is, it just proves it, it's
crazy. Okay, month four, five, and six, you can see, I'm kind of dwindling the
lagging videos down even more. We've got the new pink videos two or three times a
month, likeing videos just one
same time. So a question that you should probably ask yourself, though, if you're
trying to pivot your audience, is, is Emma going to like your Emma the new content?
And if that's the case, you can keep it all on the same channel. But if you feel
like you were making videos for Emma and now it's a total different person, maybe
start a different channel. But it worked great for me on my same channel. Okay,
another thing that I noticed is after I made this pivot, I still had some old
lagging videos that were now getting views, even though they were completely stagnant
when I posted them. Now they were like in my top 48 -hour watched videos,
which I thought was interesting. So I started looking at some patterns like this one
that was testing clothing DIYs. And I was like, okay, testing DIYs of some sort
could be an interesting topic to do outside of activeware. Or this one was
interesting. Three million views was crazy because it did not have that when I
posted it. But people loved the concept of here's this crazy ad online. Does it
really work in real life? So that was a concept I was able to take and do on
other topics. Or this one where I bought activeware from the 80s ended up doing
really well. And I was like, oh, people like the nostalgic stuff. That launched me
into a whole series, so fun information. Okay, our next era is the Hope Brand era,
because we're leaving behind the legging queen, and now I need to figure out how to
establish myself as a brand without activeware. Okay, so at this point,
I'm taking bigger risks in my videos, and this is really important because sometimes
these videos absolutely flopped. They were a totally new topic for my audience, but
I think it's really important to make these videos. So like this world's longest
hair extensions video, I remember being really excited about it, but then I posted
it and it did so bad. It was a 10 out of 10 by a long shot, absolutely tanking.
At one point, I privated the whole video. At one point I trimmed out like the
first five minutes in hopes of saving it. And then I put the video back up and I
was like, let's just see what happens. And then after time, it started to find an
audience. So even if video doesn't do well off the bat, leave it up, see what
happens, because you never know if it can unlock a brand new audience. Or on the
flip side, this unrealistic Pinterest series that I did was a hit right off the bat
so you never know okay so I did have a very specific formula here for these
experimental videos and I would post two videos that are from a really established
series that I know that my audience likes and then do an experimental video and
then I'd keep repeating that so two more solid videos and then an experimental video
and that helped keep my channel really healthy because you might remember my weird
phase where I was like trying too many weird new videos at once. That wasn't
working. But if you can kind of sandwich them like this, I think that helps a lot.
Okay, so at this point, it's time to probably reevaluate who's watching again.
And here are some tips on how to find that experimental video that your audience
still likes. So here's some tactics I found. One thing is that I would test new
topics and formats on my secondary platforms. So second YouTube channel,
my TikTok page, my Instagram, I would sprinkle in these new topics and see if
anything stuck. So for example, I started posting this like treat content on TikTok
and people seem to really like it. So I was like, okay, let's try out a treat
video on YouTube. So it was like kind of an experiment, kind of a risk, but there
was at least somewhat some proof of concept there. Another thing that I do to get
to know my Emma or my audience really, really well is live streams. I cannot tell
you how helpful this has been. So I like to do them on YouTube for the last
couple years. I'll go live once a month. And it's basically like a live YouTube
video. And we buy a bunch of packages to open or I do crafts or something,
but I sit there for an hour to uncut and I just chat with people as they send me
messages. And it's so much fun. And I'm not going to lie, the comment section on
YouTube can be a little bit dry, as some of you know, but there's something so
different about when you're live that people really open up to you. So here are
some of the comments that I've gotten on my live streams. And it helped me notice
this pattern that I don't, it would have taken me a long time to notice before. So
one up top says, I hope our whole family loves watching you. My daughter and I
watch you all the time. Or the one next to it, me and my parents love watching
you. The one in the middle, from the UK, we love watching you. And so I'm starting
to notice, people are like making an event or an experience out of watching my
videos together on their TV. And I don't think I would have realized that if it
weren't for these messages that I was getting on my live streams. And then the
bottom one is my absolute favorite. It says, hey, Hope, my girlfriend loves your
videos. Can you help me propose? Deb, let's forever watch Hope together.
Will you marry me? I was speechless. That is probably the coolest thing that's
happened in my YouTube career. It was so fun. But seeing that these couples watch
together, these families watched together, it really unlocked a lot of creativity for
me because now I'm going into it thinking, okay, what's a family going to sit down
and watch on their TV together? So fun. And that brings us to my now era.
And I'm calling this one full scope, because that's the name of my production
company, because I have a whole production company now, which is crazy, from being
an accountant to having a production company. Okay, so here's something that I've
been doing more recently to even further connect with my audience. This one's a
little more advanced, so if you're starting out, you could try this, but like I
said, it's more advanced. So from here on, I really choose my audience over choosing
the content that I'm gonna make. So here's kind of my formula for that. This is
what I used to do. Up at the top, I would say, I want to make a video about
this. How do I get them to watch? And it was very like round peg square hole
trying to get people to watch on these topics. Instead, I think I want to get this
person to watch. So what should I make a video about? Here's a, I think I skipped
a slide. But an example is, like, my husband and I really wanted to go to Hawaii,
and we're like, well, we can make a video while we're in Hawaii. And I have this
series that's called Unrealistic Pinterest, where I'll buy something from Pinterest or
I'll go somewhere from Pinterest, and then we'll see if it's, like, measures up to
the pictures or not. So we were thinking, we could do an unrealistic Pinterest in
Hawaii, but then I was like, Hawaii's pretty realistic, though, so I think my
audience would feel a little burned if I promised them this like high adventure, the
unexpected, and then it's just this like glamorous vacation. So that's an example of
probably not the best fit for my audience, even though I really wanted to do it.
But that's not to say I don't love the topics that I talk about, I really, really
do, but there have been several topics that I didn't see coming as far as me
making content about it like the new preppy trend like preppy meant a different
thing to me in junior high as it does today i did a whole video on that because
so many people were talking about it that watch my videos or i bought every crock
like if you if you told me five years ago i was making that video i would not
believe you that seems so random but my audience absolutely loved it and fun fact
the reason i did this crocs video i had nothing to really back this idea up other
than everybody that came up to me and said that they like
So I've been playing Roblox dressed to impress with my followers, and it has been
so much fun, but never in a million years would have guessed. So they picked the
theme, Hope Scope, and this is them all dressing up as me, which was so fun. All
right, and now I guess this era for me is building our team.
There's a picture of my cute team. It's grown a lot since this. We took this
earlier this year, and then We're building a studio now, which is super exciting,
but all of this is just to help build the HopeScope team, the HopeScope brand, so
that I can just further focus on my audience and giving them amazing content that
they really want to see. So wherever you are in your YouTube career, whether you're
just starting out, maybe you're where I was, where you've been doing this for a
long time, you're feeling frustrated, you need a change, or maybe things are great
and you just want to make some little changes. Hopefully something from my story
stood out to you and you're able to implement it and get some really amazing
results. And I can't wait to see what your next era holds. Thanks everybody.

PT9

Hey, Jumpstarters, we are ready to dive in and really start understanding our viewer.
Now, I can tell you, as we start to really truly understand how YouTube operates
and we went really in -depth, YouTube only has two goals to predict what the viewer
wants to watch and keeping the viewer on longer. And for us, it gives us a perfect
opportunity to start understanding who we're making content for, because remember,
YouTube doesn't push content for creators, it pulls content for viewers. So viewers
are really important. We really need to understand what makes them tick, all the
little patterns that YouTube would see, and that's going to give us a great
opportunity to really connect our content and have it reach its full potential. So
the first thing that we want to do is realize that we're focusing on two types of
viewers, the potential viewer. These are people that would be of interest in watching
your content. That would also be a viewer that would watch one video. We also want
active viewers. These are returning viewers. These are people that watch more than
one videos. And so as we go through these exercises and really start having a
hypothesis of who our viewer really is, let's just keep in mind that's where we
want to really put the bulk of our attention. And then two, what we want to do is
not necessarily focus in on our core viewer and our hardcore viewer. That's going to
come a little bit later in our content strategy. So let's kind of dive into the
demographics. One of the big things that I found that a lot of content creators and
brands struggle with is realizing that sometimes the way that they're packaging
something or their content in general is resonating with the wrong audience. And so
ultimately, they're really building the wrong type of audience, and that's why they're
stuck. That's why they can't get to the next level. So for me, I always want to
kind of break it down and really start focusing on, you know, demographic
understanding. And it'll give us context of how to communicate our content from the
packaging that is the title thumbnail and also that little hook that's at the
beginning of the video and also your content strategy. That means your content
itself, the way that's edited and so on. One of the keys to success is really
understanding and interpreting data. Demographics help content creators and businesses
alike truly start seeing that data and interpret it through a lens that gives them
a lot more clarity of what's going to connect and what's going to actually resonate,
but more importantly, things that they shouldn't do. And so you're going to see
these patterns of data and I'm going to help you learn how to interpret it in a
way that will actually help you make better data -driven decisions. And that's why
knowing age, gender, location, and also interests of the audience will help us create
content that not only will resonate, but it will actually connect with the viewer.
Now, in your workbook, you're going to get to the demographic section. You're going
to see that we're going to focus on an age, generation, gender, income range,
education, geographical location, relationship status, and children. Now,
that gives us a lot of context of start really understanding some patterns of
predictability because every generation processes life differently because of the world
that they were brought up in. Let me kind of break this down for you. So I'm
going to go through all the generations that are alive today and give you kind of
the context and understanding of what they're about and how they process the world.
We're going to start with the builder generation. These are the people that were
born between 1925 and 1945. Now, one of the things that I like to break down is
how they're actually getting their information, how they're actually getting content,
how they're actually being influenced. And the first thing that it is is the way of
technology, radio was the thing. Radio was the way to connect with this generation.
And so they're used to sitting around a radio as a family listening and connecting
and being entertained and educated all through the invention of the radio.
Now, I always look at things that have happened, so they were just getting out of
the Great Depression and working their way up to a really big world event.
And so we always look at world events to really help us understand that viewer. And
the big world event that happened during the time of Builders was World War II. Now
that literally transformed everyone in the world at the time. And then two, that's
that point in history that people will always remember. And then also there's a lot
of emotion around that. Now, the type of person
1925 and 1945, roller skates came out and you can see that young kids would do it.
It was a craze. It was a trend. And that's something that we always need to
consider. Now, breaking down, I always look at entertainment and we talked about
radio, but one big component of it if entertainment was actually the record player.
So records were a big thing. Musicians was a big thing. People would sit around
records and have their entertainment. There was a lot of comedians that had records.
They would actually listen to those records. And so that actually gives us a good
understanding of how they're starting to consume content and then also how they are
entertained. Now, we get into the type of style of learning that this generation is
a part of. And that would be formal learning. It was very formalized. It was very
structured. It was very step by step of This is what you're going to do. This is
what you're going to get out of it. And ultimately, that led to the way that they
like to communicate. And if you're familiar, a lot of people in this generation
would rather talk face -to -face. They want to have a conversation with you. They
don't want to do it over text or email. They want you to come to their house, sit
down with them, and have a face -to -face conversation. And that also leads the type
of marketing that works very well with this generation, which is traditional
marketing. And that traditional marketing is used like in billboards and newspaper ads
and, you know, radio ads, TV ads. That is pretty apparent.
Now, a lot of this generation now literally congregates watching television and also
Facebook. Now, the generation that has been fun for me because it's so massive and
they're so predictable is baby boomers. Now, they're born between 1946 and 1964.
Now, the technology that was coming into play that was really impacting them was TV.
TV's huge. And you saw black and white and TV. And so the radio kind of got
pushed out away. And then the TV was the gathering moment. And that's how they got
their information and entertainment. Now, one of those life moments and world moments
that occurred was the moon landing, all the assassination like JFK, MLK,
X, and RFK, there's a lot of stuff going on, a lot of civil unrest. And so that's
kind of that poignant world moment that really impacted them. And also their language
started to shift. They started to use and insert a lot of slang, like be cool,
groovy, peace, peace out, way out, you know, okay man, it would ruffle the feathers
of the builder generation, their parents, because their parents were used to formal
language, and so it was kind of like that disconnect. Also, record players moved
into eight tracks, and also the type of learning shifted, too, because ultimately the
classroom started to expand instead of having e -formal learning, they actually had to
go to a structured learning system just because of the kids were so massive and the
classrooms became bigger. Also, this generation does love face -to -face. They would
rather resolve problems face -to -face. They would resolve issues face -to -face. They'd
rather have entertainment face -to -face. This is a generation that loves to connect
that way. And the type of marketing that works really well for them is broadcast.
So it's like, hey, we're sending it out to you, this broadcast moment. That's the
type of marketing that works. And then you're going to find a lot of this
generation on YouTube and Facebook. Some of them are actually going on to Instagram,
but they're more heavily on Facebook and also YouTube. And we go to Gen X.
This is my generation. I'm actually proud of my generation because we are who we
are. I just love it. Now, we are the generation from 1965 to 1979,
and we got to see and witness technology come to the forefront. We went from five
television stations to hundreds, if not thousands of stations with cable TV and
satellites. Also, personal computing and also gaming from a personal standpoint,
it came on. So we were able to see all the stuff that was actually happening at
that time and technology coming into our homes and really disrupting our lives.
Now, moments of world moments of events was the stock market crash. We had the
Berlin Wall come down, the challenger that blew up. I remember exactly where I was
at for each of those moments. It was very, very impactful and it made me process
life a little bit different. Also, games became a lot more personal and it was like
personal challenges. So the Rubik's Cube was huge. video games were huge and are
still huge. And then also in
We love face -to -face. We love a phone and email. I mean, we'll use technology.
We'll do both face -to -face and the other. But you'll find us using technology every
time that we can. And ultimately, we just communicate the way they do it at the
time frame that they do. Now, the type of marketing approach that you'd actually
work with them is that direct and also online and social, all that works.
This generation will literally use any type of social media. Pretty much TikTok,
they're big on TikTok, they're big on IG, they're big on YouTube, they're big on
Facebook. Ultimately, we'll take most technology. There are some other technology that
they won't get, but ultimately when it comes down to what they're what they will
use, they're more willing to use things because, you know, We've seen technology come
and go, and they've seen technology come and stay and evolve and transform the
world. And the next generation is millennials. These are the people that were born
between 1980 and 1994. And during that time, the internet literally transformed the
world. They were able to see it right out of the gate. The internet come on, and
things start to shift. And so a lot of things that were being done, like
mail faxes, you know, things that was like, you know, way to communicate, the
internet kind of broke that with email and also forums and websites, a lot of that
stuff, they were able to witness that start to happen. So this is a generation that
used and adopted that a lot quicker, and also it shifted the way that they started
to process things and where they were influenced. So their language, you know, you
have, you know, funky, what's up, you know, the whole thing from there. You got a
lot of millennial slang. Also, the toy of choice was the Beanie Baby,
Pokemon was taking off. Also, the Walkman and the CD turned into the iPod.
So it was even more personal, had more songs, they had their curated playlists. and
then their type of education is more interactive learning. A lot of computers were
coming on, a lot of schools were using computers, so they had a lot more
interactive learning that was happening in the classroom. Also, we talked about ways
to communicate, you know, they would rather prefer of email or text, very, very
structured on that. And also, how do you market to them? Well, they love to be
marketed online because they grew up online. They understand the online ecosystem. And
then two, what influences them are social influencers, people that have influenced
them online, whether it's a YouTuber or someone on IG, you know, that's just the
way it works. Now, this generation uses a lot of different platforms. They don't do
much on Facebook because that's where the boomers are at from their point of view.
And they're actually, you know, on YouTube, they're on IG, they're on TikTok, they're
also on Snapchat. Now my favorite generation, these are the generation for my kids,
and the one that I actually resonate the most with, believe it or not, I understand
them really well. That's probably why I've been able to succeed on YouTube because
there's a lot of these people in this generation watching YouTube. And they're born
between 1995 to 2009. Social media was huge and invented during that time and also
mobile. So things became more personal. This generation was able to see everything at
a glance. I mean, these are the iPad babies, you know, parents that would give
their kids a nanny and their nanny was the iPad. And so they grew up on a mobile
device. They grew up on a personal device. Now, they were able to see a world
event, which was the global financial crisis. There was a lot that was going on
there. And then, two, this generation, you know, communicates through emojis,
communicates through memes, you know, really is able to deep dive into some of their
slang like sauce, you know, goat, slay, you know, you know, the whole thing.
If you have kids, you know exactly what they're saying. But this is where things
started to shift. You know, since the world was more mobile, there's a lot of
things that were coming on to impact them. So a lot of apps, a lot of games.
Folding scooters were big, fidget spinners because of their ADD, Minecraft, because
this is a generation that likes to say busy, like to see things built. Now this
generation started to swing away from the iPod and went to more streaming music like
Spotify. This generation loves Spotify and they can kind of curate their list and
they have kind of their theme. They didn't feel like they needed to pay for any
music, they just want to listen to me.
to have that DM come in from their friends. Now, they're also going in depth on
text messages. Text messages is a big thing. They'd rather text than talk. You know,
they'd rather text you than get on the phone and talk. I know that can be
frustrating for other generations that want that face to face or have that real -time
conversation. This generation doesn't. This generation actually just wants to
communicate through text because they can do it and be done and then also go
through all the different conversations that's going on. I think this generation has
more conversations than any previous generation. They have a lot of threads that are
out of them communicating, whether it's on Discord, whether it's in IG, whether it's
on their phone. It's pretty amazing. And also, this generation is influenced by way
to market to them is through influencers and social. You're seeing them more it.
However, they're not as blinded as millennials. They're starting to see what reality
is, and they're starting to shift that. So they're pretty much on everything except
for Facebook, all the different social media platforms, and they use it really in
depth. And one of the things that they're looking for is real -time feedback, and
then more importantly, that real -time connection. And the last generation that we're
going to talk about is Gen A, because it's the generation that started being born
between 2010 and up to today. Now, this generation is pretty much the most different
generation than all the generations that we discussed, and they're the ones that are
really going to change the world because of way they process, the way they're being
brought up. The technology that they're using right now is live streaming and AI. I
can tell you that right now. They want that real time connection, that real time
understanding. Kind of a life moment they were able to see was COVID -19, Brexit,
and then also the introduction and revolution of AI. It's really been massive.
And you can see that their slang is like Riz, bet, you know, cap, no cap, mid,
lit, you know, that whole fun thing. And some of their slang is even over to Gen
Z. So Gen Z and Gen A have similar slang. Gen A is going to slang that I don't
even understand. But this is where their devices is the iPad,
iPhone, iPod, any type of device, any type of mobile device,
that's what this generation's into. And also, they moved away from like Spotify and
they would rather communicate with a smart speaker. So like, hey, Siri, do this or,
hey, Alexa, do that. I mean, that's basically what they're doing because it's more
AI. It's that assistant helping them. And then, two, they actually seem the most in
virtual learning. So because of COVID, there's a lot of virtual learning, even prior
to that. A lot of courses are online. And then two, they're going to places like
YouTube where they can learn at their own pace and really learn and discover
anything they want. Now, the way Generation A communicates is through DMs, but
they're literally heavily going into conversational mode, and that's why they're
gaming. So they play games like Fortnite where they can have all their friends,
they're playing a game together, they're talking together, they're making fun of each
other, they're going in depth, and they're having those conversations. And then, too,
as they're really pulling it in, they don't do text messages as much. They'd rather
pull out the phone and FaceTime. And this is where, you know, they like those live
moments. They love live streams. They love that live connection. And that leads to
the way to influence them, which is live. And I want to tell you why this
generation is pretty amazing is because they're the generation that sees all this
misinformation, all these fake people on Instagram, all these fake people on YouTube,
and they're saying, ah, that's not real. You know, that's fake. And so they're
looking for reality. They're looking for authenticity. They're looking for raw moments.
That's why live scenarios work with them. And so it's not this preconceived text
that they put out. They would rather have a live conversation, but through
technology, not face -to -face like other generations, but basically through device.
And that's really important to understand. Now, they'll use pretty much any platform
out there except for Facebook. You know, you're seeing a huge gravitational pull to
short form content on TikTok and shorts. But more importantly, these are the ones
that love live streams. They love that engagement and to connect on live streams.
And also they like live moments. And so you're going to see some of the biggest
events happening online because of this generation. Now, to break this.
of a generational look of how they process that. So go ahead, go through the
workbook, start filling out who you think your viewer is, who they are from a
demographic perspective, and then we'll go over to the next video.

PT10

Okay, jump starters, now we're starting to understand how to communicate to our
viewer through the demographic lens. Well now let's really give it a lot of context
with the psychographic lens. Now psychographics is pretty much the one that I'm going
to focus the most attention on. However, This video is not going to be as in depth
because we're going to have multiple videos that's going to really give you clarity
of what to think about and how to think about as you approach identifying your
viewer. Now remember we talked about the Maslow's hierarchy of needs, well this is
the key, this is the motivator, this is the things when we actually understand the
psychological needs of the viewers that we're actually connecting with or those
potential viewers that actually will connect with us. So as we focus in on the
Maslow hierarchy of needs, it'll give us the clarity of what we need to do and how
we need to communicate, how we need to package by understanding the demographic side
of who we're actually talking to, kind of their motivators, and then ultimately put
it through the lens of what's their psychological breakdown. Now, with Maslow's
hierarchy of needs, we're only going to focus in on two, which is the love and
belonging. Those are friends, relationships, sense of connection, and the esteem,
which is prestige and feeling accomplished. And that goes to our four C's, caring,
connection, collaboration, and community. And as we focus in on this, we're actually
going to see a lot of audience development because we'll have like -minded people
that are looking for something and they're finding it through our content and they're
finding it through our community. So the psychographic breakdown, which is motivators,
beliefs and values, attitudes, lifestyles, fears, and vulnerability, and then also
goals and aspiration. So as we're looking at viewer psychographics, we're trying to
understand the viewer's motivation. We're trying to tailor our content to those
emotional needs. We're trying to predict what the viewer's behavior will be. Also,
we're trying to build a stronger viewer connection between content and you,
and that's going to develop a viewer content relationship. Also, that's going to give
us ideas of how to create content and have a lot of inspiration. And then two,
we'll know how to personally engage that specific viewer based off of the
psychographics. As we explore aspects like values, beliefs, interests, lifestyles,
personality traits, by understanding these elements, we as content creators can grasp
why viewers will choose some things and they're not going to choose others. Now, I
can tell you, this is going to be the key as we go through some exercises in this
section, really trying to understand who's watching what and why. And when you start
seeing it through that lens, you really are connecting with the viewer on a very
deep level because of your understanding of the psychographics. And I'm going to
teach you how to look at the psychographic data and reveal emotional triggers,
psychological triggers, also psychological needs behind all the viewer's behavior.
And it's really cool because you can actually start processing things and having it
be a part of your content strategy and your content production because you know
these triggers exist and it will take them through this type of connection. So by
having a better understanding of them psychologically, we can know what type of
content will work and why, what what they're getting engaged with, how long they're
going to stay, what we can do to get them to do next, and then ultimately the
types of call to actions or CTAs that will actually work. Now, in your workbook,
you're going to see the section of psychographics. This is going to be one of the
sections that we're going to deep dive into and refine and refine until we know.
And ultimately, you can start filling this out, and as we release more content,
you're going to be refining your understanding of your viewer. Now, I want to end
this video on this one statement. When you truly understand who you're talking to
and also how to connect with them, that's when a new viewer becomes an active
viewer and an active viewer becomes a core viewer. And your core viewer, if you do
it consistently, becomes a hardcore viewer. And these guys are not going to miss a
video. They don't care what a thumbnail looks like. They don't care what a title
looks like because they're connected to you and your content.

PT11

Hey, Jump Starter, this is where it gets fun for me, because what we're trying to
do is understand our viewer at a very deep level, what they do online, what they
do offline, their daily routines, basically their human behavior. And this is where
we're going to geek out, because this is one of my favorite things to do in life
is really understand human behavior based on their situation. Now, I can tell you
that 98 % of human behavior is predictable. We have kind of that 2 % outlier,
but ultimately we can start seeing patterns of predictability in human behavior, and
then we're going to see it as a group. And I can tell you, once you see it as a
group and you start understanding human behavior with that clarity and that insight,
then you're going to do exactly what the algorithm is doing, which is trying to
predict what the viewer wants to watch, because you're going to do.
or go serve two years in my church as a missionary. I decided to go to serve two
years as a missionary. Now, we don't get to pick where we go. We get to get
assigned, and I was assigned to Paraguay. Now, this is in the heart of South
America, and I was really excited because I love South America. I love the people
of South America, and so I'm like, I'm really excited to see this. And so I was
learning and preparing to go to Paraguay. They speak Spanish there, so I was
learning Spanish. Well, the first area that I was assigned to, they didn't really
speak Spanish. They had another native language there called Guadenae. And Guadenae
was a language where more people in poversed areas lived.
And then two, it was kind of the root of the main language before the Spaniards
came in to Paraguay. And so that was kind of the cultural understanding of that.
And so really was excited because I was like in the remote part of Paraguay. We
started going through the jungles of Paraguay. And you're always assigned with someone
to be with you. They're called your companion. And it's another, you know, another
person like you that you're just trying to experience. They might have a little bit
more age in the mission. So they have a better understanding that you might have.
And so we were kind of navigating through the jungles of where we were assigned.
And I remember coming into and seeing a hut, and this hut was like an eight by
eight, and there was like cardboard and these banana leaves that were kind of around
making the walls and it had a tin roof. And I'm like, man, like this, this is
crazy. They have nothing. They literally have nothing. And I go and you don't knock
on the door, but you clap, so you're like, that's what you do. And you're like,
hey. And so you have this conversation, we had the conversation. And I noticed that
it was a pretty big family. It was a family of eight that lived in that eight by
eight. I'm like, how is that even possible, right? So this is starting to warp my
mind because I grew up in the United States. The only experience I had out of the
country was in Mexico, but it was like Tijuana, just went over the border from San
Diego. But realistically, this is like blowing my mind. I didn't understand how
people really lived. And as we were able to teach that family and start to
understand that family. I had all these thoughts that were going through my mind.
And for me, I love being a student of people. And I was like, man, what is life
like for these people? And what advantages do they actually have? And so I started
to see all things. And I noticed the trend in this family. They were extremely
happy. They're extremely loving. They're extremely kind. And I'm like, man, this is
so amazing. because I don't know how I would live in an 8x8 on a dirt floor and
surrounded by this little coal stove, I just don't know how I'd operate, you know?
And so I started to see that pattern of happiness and I'm like, how are they
happy? You don't have things. They literally didn't have anything, but they had each
other. And so I was able to see life differently and I was able to see where true
happiness really comes from. And I started to value those things. I started to see
those things. And so That experience really transformed me, and ultimately I started
to see life differently, and I started to see humans differently, and I started to
see patterns of what will actually bring happiness and value. And it's not sometimes
what we think. It's not sometimes what we drive or where we stay, but it's who we
are. So after leaving Paraguay as a missionary, I always had this deep desire to
see cultures and people. And my favorite thing to do in life, literally, is take
time with my family. I love my family. That's what it's all about. And I love to
experience the world. I love to experience culture. And so we've traveled to over 60
countries. And instead of staying at some resort that's like the United States, I
like to go where the people are at. I like to eat the food that the people eat.
I love to experience the culture and the routines of that specific area. And I'll
tell you what, I have found so much about myself by understanding how people view
things. I notice that there's some really influencing factors that impact all humans.
And these might be biological or genetic. They might be psychological. They might be
social or cultural. They might be environmental, what their neighborhoods like, what
they grow up in, what their family units like. And then also situational, kind of
the situation, are they at there? Are they pour? Do they have a whole bunch of
influence of money? How do they process things? I also found that these factors are
the lens of how they see the world and navigate their day -to -day. So we're going
to deep dive and ask a lot of questions about our viewer because as we learn how
to predict our viewer, then we're in line with what the algorithms are already
trying to do, which is predict what the viewer wants to watch. Now really for us
to understand the viewer, we actually need to understand what they do day -to -day.
We need to know what their days like from waking up all the way through to going
to sleep. And as we have some clarity on that, and we're going to just have
hypothesis, we're going to be able to validate a lot of these things. We're going
to know exactly, you know, things that motivate them, things that demotivate them by
their actions. Because what they do during the day and how they choose what they do
online and offline, it gives us clarity of their motivating factors. So one of the
first things that I look for is their family dynamics and their upbringing. So just
like that experience I shared with you in Paraguay, I want to see what is their
living conditions like? And then two, what is their family dynamic like? And then
two, by that, we should know some indicators. So like if it's a split home or
their father or mother died, there's a lot of things that could really impact
someone at a very deep level. So I really want to understand how they're brought up
and also how their family dynamics is and also their tendencies to do. Next,
getting out of the home and the family dynamics, we're going to see how they're
being influenced by the social and cultural influences. So that lens can really start
shaping people's lives and also decision making based on what they find valuable
socially or culturally. Now, as we start seeing social and cultural differences and
their influences, there's actually environmental changes too. So this could be
environmental from the weather down to kind of the climate of their neighborhood,
city, state, country. It can really break that down. So as we get that clarity,
it helps us understand who we're actually talking to. So as we start to understand
what the viewer is doing during the day, what we need to do is see what they
value or more importantly where they spend their time. because all of us have the
same amount of time.
or are they behind in their bills? Do they have some debt that they needed to take
care of? You know, we need to take that into consideration. Also, there might be
another motivating factor that's not money. They might be passionate about the project
they're working on, or there might be a deadline that's actually needed to be made.
So as we start to look at what people do during the day, really see where they
prioritize their time, because when you see where they prioritize their time, they're
either needing to do it or that's what they want to do. So we need to be able to
take it through that lens. One of the things I look at is when we're looking at
different generations, you might see a generation that plays a lot on video games,
and parents get frustrated. Why are you on video games? Well, that's how they're
connecting with their friends, and it's friendship time, and they're doing what they
love, which is playing video games together, and they're on their headset, and
ultimately they're having that conversation. That's how they unwind. That's how they
relax. That's how they connect with their friends. So as we're taking it from that
perspective, we start to see where people prioritize and why they do what they do
during the day. Now, one of the things that I really like to see is their habits,
what their lifestyle is. And when we start breaking down habits and lifestyle and
putting it through the filter and start questioning why they do certain things, it
gives us a lot of clarity of that predictability of the patterns of human behavior.
And I also look for what are their hobbies and other interests that they're doing
during the day. Do they do certain things consistently? Are there daily routines or
rituals that they do during the week? And as we start seeing these things, it gives
us an understanding of who the viewer really is, what they find valuable, what their
day -to -day life is like, but also what is influencing them, what is motivating
them. Now, all this comes back down to is understanding the behavior and part of
their behavior is what they find valuable enough to purchase. So I like to see
buying patterns and buying patterns in people. And then, too, this is something that
you can do offline and online. So let me just give you an example. My kids would
rather do Uber Eats. I would rather go to a restaurant. Okay, you know, I I like
that feeling, to get out and about. Well, by understanding the buying behaviors, it's
able to understand people what they find valuable. Maybe they don't find it valuable
enough to get up and leave what they're doing and go. They would rather have the
food come to them. And so that's one of the things that we have to take into
consideration as we're trying to understand our viewer. Now, in the workbook, there
are two sections, online behavior and offline behavior. And what we're trying to do
is just do a hypothesis. We're doing a guess of what they do during their day. And
I'm going to show you how to validate that as much as possible. So guys, this is
an important section. This is kind of the basis of what Channel Jump Starts about,
which is what motivates the viewers to do things, to click, to engage, to go deeper
with you as a content creator. And two, what this does, it gives us the opportunity
to understand the viewer well enough that we can predict what they actually want to
watch and engage with. That is what the goal is here in Channel Jumpstart and
that's why the viewer is the epicenter of the system.

PT12

Hey,
Jumpstarter, now that you put together your viewer profile in the workbook, it's now
time to validate that. Now, here's the thing. This is an exercise that you're going
to need to do every single day as a creator. When you're working on your channel,
working to understand your viewer, You always need to have validation of who your
viewer is because one of the biggest reasons why you guys are here is you don't
know who your viewer is. And also maybe your viewer's changed and you're making
content that's just not connecting. And so really to have sustainable success, we
always need to go through this exercise to really understand who's watching our
content today, not two years ago. Okay? It's really important that we understand
who's watching it today and we're always validating, always validating. And I'm going
to show you the process to do that. Now, a lot of you are trying to figure out
how to do it with a big channel and you've been on YouTube for quite some time.
Some of you are starting a brand new channel trying to find out who that viewer
is. And there's a lot of you that are in between that. Now, the biggest thing for
me is as you go through this exercise and you have clarity and understanding, this
is where I get excited because that's where a lot of ideas will come from and also
the direction of where you're going to go because you're almost anticipating or
predicting what the viewer wants to watch. So one of the biggest things that I look
at to understand and validate the viewer is comments, feedback, and data.
Comments, feedback, and data. So as we look at each individual things, I'm going to
give you a case study and example to give you a little bit more clarity. Now, one
of my students who's in my inner circle and I've been helping for several years is
Bikes and Beards. Sean is one of the most amazing creators right now because he
really understands his viewer. And he's really evolved as a content creator because
he put out videos like this. Let me show you guys where all the magic really
happens.
It's the Bikes and Beards bathroom,
we segregate, beards only.
Any resemblance? And now he's doing videos like this. So here's the story of me,
who is not the police,
getting pulled over by the actual police. But to give you context of what happened,
we have to go back two days earlier. So I bought two police motorcycles from a
government auction to ride them home from Alabama to Pennsylvania 1 ,000 miles. He's
an amazing storyteller, and I can tell you the reason why he's amazing storyteller
is because he knows exactly who his viewer is and what motivates them. So in our
inner circle meetup, Sean and I had a very deep discussion on his viewer avatar,
and we needed to start validating some of our assumptions. One of the questions I
had for him is when do they actually watch videos? We understand the demographic
behavior of the viewer and we understand that they spend a lot of time at work
providing for their family. But when do they actually watch your videos? Is it at
night? Is it in the morning? And Sean kind of chuckled a little bit and he says,
you know what? I think they're probably watching in the bathroom. And I'm like,
okay, okay, why? Why are they watching in the bathroom? So we started to really
look at the viewer specifically. It's basically some assumptions that we had is,
Is it a place where they can be uninterrupted and relax and watch something? Are
they habitual multitaskers where they have to multitask everything that they do? Is
it because of boredom or distraction or are they seeking comfort and relaxation? Or
is it during a work break? So what we needed to do is prove the hypothesis and
this is what he did in a video. So the reason I bought this was because I was
wondering probably the same thing that you were wondering, I was at home, in the
bathroom, hiding for my family, and all my responsibilities, don't judge me. I know
you're probably doing that exact same thing right now. So he put this in a video,
he just put it as content, but it was a way to have a conversation and to
validate his hypothesis. And this is what came in. I was in the bathroom hiding for
my family and responsibilities. Don't judge me. First thing I heard as I sit down
on the toilet. Okay. Think about this. Here's another comment. I literally in the
bathroom taking a hot dump from a Chinese food massacre. You totally call me out on
this one, dude. I'm seeing the replies and the thumbs up. Why did he call us out?
You know, I'm literally in the bathroom. And you start to see it over and over and
over again. So for me, as you start having a conversation with the viewer and
asking them certain things or saying certain things, they're going to respond back in
comments. And that's how we start validating things is through the comments and the
thread of comments that people are actually connecting or disconnecting with what
you're saying. Now, this next example I had with Sean was something that we were
able to do in real time. We were able to have real -time results, and it's a
feature that's in YouTube to get real -time feedback. In our inner circle meetup,
Sean and I were really trying to understand the viewer, and I had the question, how
many people actually own a motorcycle and who doesn't actually own a motorcycle? And
if they own a motorcycle, how often are they riding a motorcycle? Very important to
know because the channel's all around, and his content's all around motorcycles. And
so right then and there, we were sitting on the couch, I had him pull up YouTube
and actually do a YouTube survey, and we did it in real time. We were able to
watch it very quickly based off of this question. How often do you ride your
motorcycle? The first one is, I don't have a bike. Okay, that's really important,
okay? We wanted to know who doesn't have a bike. And if they did have a bike, how
often do they ride a few times a year, a few weekends a month, or a few times a
week, or daily. We wanted to know how active they are on the bike. So he actually
put this in, and and here are the results. 46 % of the people don't have a bike.
And you can see the percentage that the bulk of them is all sporadic. Few times a
year, a few times a weekend, a few times a week, or daily. Now, what this actually
does is helps us understand that the big majority of people ride a bike or own a
bike, but they might love bikes, but you have 46 % that don't ride bikes.
Now we're starting to understand our viewer and the need. Maybe they have a desire.
They had a bike at one time. And when they got married and they start having kids,
they're like, maybe this is a little too dangerous. I value family more, but I'm
still passionate about bikes. And so we wanted to break down and understand deeper.
Now, if you look, there's over a thousand comments and the thousand comments will
give us clarity on also understanding the survey results. Take a look at this one.
I've been writing for 41 years now, can't stop, big addiction, good therapy, can't
imagine not writing every day, I love your program. Okay, couple things that I want
to note on this one. Longtime writer, okay, he's addicted to it. He views writing
his therapy, okay? And then also he spelled program with an E, so I know that okay
because it's either it's either candidate or UK or something like that okay because
of the way that he spelled something right now you had 103 thumbs up six replies
and as you dig deep into this you start understanding people you start understanding
patterns of people so I put him in daily rider okay can't stop he's been riding
for a very long time and why he's starting like his content and then two how
people are responding to that as well. Next, I don't have a bike. I just enjoy
fun, wholesome content y 'all provide. Okay, y 'all, okay, y 'all's in the South.
So I know he's from the South, okay. And what is he looking for? He doesn't own a
bike, but he likes fun, wholesome content around the bike. And so that's some of
the things that Sean's known for is, wholesome content. That's who his brand is.
That's who he is. And so that gives us a really good indicator is he providing
value. Well, what type of value are they looking for? Wholesome content is one of
them, even if they don't have a bike. Okay. Now, the next thing what we want to
do is we can validate through comments, but we also want to validate in person.
Now, how do we validate in person? Well, there is real power in meeting one of
your viewers face to face. And you can actually have conversations. What I encourage
all my students to do is as you start getting a following, meet the people in
person. Because that's a hyper way to really start validating who your viewer is
because these are the people that stopped their day and they came to you for a
meetup. And so as Sean did this, he actually does these meetups where they have all
their bikes that come in, they eat some donuts, that drink some coffee or hot
chocolate, and they go on a ride. Well, this right here gives us clarity of
questions. So we can ask, hey, how long have you been watching my channel? And they
might say, I just discovered you last week, or my friend introduced me to your
content, or I've been watching you since day one. And you can see the evolution of
that viewer of where they're at in their journey. Next, I always love to ask, what
is your favorite video? And they start explaining their favorite video. And I ask
them, why? Why is that your favorite video? Why do you actually enjoy that? and
they'll tell you the value that they find in that video, oh, it was wholesome fun,
or it was really funny when you did this, or oh my gosh, it got me thinking about
that, or oh my gosh, it reminded me of when me and my friends did this. That's a
lot of power of really validating who your viewer is, and then two, what they find
valuable in your content. Next, he asked questions like, when did you buy your bike?
Now, when you ask a question like that, especially if they had the bike they're
going to get really nerdy and say, oh, I bought it here. This is the type of
bike. This is why I bought the bike. This is, you know, the influence in. And
they're going in depth on their passion about their motorcycles. So as you have in
-person meetups, more when it's around atopics. Like if you do Pokemon and it's like,
hey, what was your favorite Pokemon card, right? Why did you buy it? And what type
of collections that you're going into it? It gives you a lot of clarity. So it
doesn't matter if motorcycles or Pokemon, as you're talking about what your content's
about and that relational interest that they actually have, it's going to give you
clarity and validation to who that viewer really is. Now, when you're in that in
-person meet up or if you meet a fan in -person, what we're going to do is ask
them questions, but also listen to what they're saying. But more importantly, we're
looking for non -verbal cues. So if they perk up like this, you know that they're
excited. There's something that they're passionate about, right? If they're if they're
like really serious, it's like, okay, they're very intense. There's something that's
really important to them. So what we're trying to do is look for all the the
information and data that's coming in both visually and audibly. So as you're pulling
it together and processing this, you'll know when to go deeper or when to kind of
move the subject to another question. So one thing that I always do when I come.
It doesn't matter if someone's meeting me for the first time. They might say, hey,
Darrell, love your stuff. I always like to go. Where are you from? Tell me about
yourself. Break it down. When did you discover this? When did you discover that? I
look for the verbal cues of, hey, what do they find valuable and why? And then,
too, it leads to a more in -depth conversation. And it gives me clarity about the
viewer on a very deep level. So when you do in -person meetups, make sure you take
time to really survey and dig deep and ask additional questions. Don't be
superficial. Say, oh, I understand the audience. Like literally, these are the people
that are watching your videos. These are the people that care about you. The more
that you can understand them, you can understand a group of people like them that
really resonates with your content. And for me, when someone finds your content
valuable, remember the feedback loop, this human feedback loop, they're going to share
with like -minded people, okay? And I can guarantee you when you actually have these
conversations with viewers, like one of my friends introduced me to you or a
coworker introduced me to your content. Well, how do they do it? They found value
in that content and they shared it with them. And then guess what? That brought
them over to watch the content and it creates that audience, that audience
development that's actually happening and you're growing the audience as people are
finding something that they're passionate or into, finding value in it, they're
sharing with other people, and then, too, that makes YouTube goes nuts. Okay, so for
us, it's all about validation and taking time with the viewer and really
understanding them at a very deep level. Now, through this case study of Sean,
you're able to see how he was able to validate who the viewer is, through the
comments, through surveys, and through in -person. Now, let me tell you why this is
because when you actually understand who your viewer is and what they're not, what
they're passionate about, it creates opportunities to reach more people. And so this
is probably one of the best examples that can ever show you when you start
validating data and then leveraging it towards your content, that's when you can
actually have magic that happens on YouTube. So six months ago, Sean made a video
on this, why you should never buy an Orange County chopper. He bought a very
expensive motorcycle and he's saying, this is a big mistake. Well, in the six
months, it went out and did, it's 6 .2 million views. That's a lot of views, guys.
And it was like literally doing what I teach where you're passionate about something
and your audience is passionate about something. And then you bring in pop culture,
which is Orrin County's Chopper is a very longstanding TV show of some really
interesting personalities, Paul Sr. and Paul Jr., and ultimately, he was able to use
that as context and bring it in his content. Well, lo and behold, Paul Sr. seen it
and reacted to it on YouTube. I'm not sure if I like him too much,
though. I'm not so sure how we'd get along, you know? He's definitely not my
people. When he was in his diapers, I was building bikes. You know what I'm saying?
Okay, so here's a couple things. When that video came out, you can definitely see,
hey, do you know what? He made some pretty bold statements, and I wanted to go
look in the comments of that video that Paul Sr. made of what was actually
happening. He's definitely not my people. That's why we like him, Hollywood. So his
fans, Davy Jones, 777, said, look, like, that's why we like him because he's not
you. He's not Hollywood. He's wholesome. He's real. He's an actual person.
234 thumbs up. Okay. Another thing. This is so embarrassing for you. Sean didn't say
a negative thing about you and your ego didn't let you listen to Sean's video. 409
people thumbs up. Okay. 14 replies. Calling out other people thugs while acting like
one says a lot. So This is what's going on. Now, here's the thing. When you
actually understand your audience, you actually understand the process and the timing,
then it gives you opportunity. That's what Sean did. As a smart jump starter, Sean
said, okay, I'm going to capitalize on this opportunity. I'm going to make a video.
But before I make a video, I'm going to inform my people that don't know that this
video happened, and I'm going to let them know that it happened. Okay? So we
actually put out this survey. My response to Paul Senior's video will be coming out
tomorrow, and that was 8, 28, 24. And ultimately,
I want to know how to respond. I want to see Sean compete in a bike buildoff.
That's 30%. No, Sean should stick and buy weird and strange motorcycles. That's 20%.
And then Sean should do bike buildoff and buy an old rundown farm.
Okay, Sean really wants to buy an run down farm, but he should do a bike build
-off and do that. So, like, literally 70 % of the viewer wants to see him to do a
build -off. Okay, so what does John do? He did the survey, but then he makes a
video. Well, what is this video about? Well, he actually reacts to someone reacting
to his video. Take a look. And that supercharger on it was just amazing.
He could not duplicate that in a million years. The Supercharger was amazing. The
bike is incredible. But then Paul says something, and I think this is where he
just, he doesn't know what's going on. He doesn't know who I am. If I had a
million years, I could duplicate it. You got it from his wife. You stole it from
his wife. When I say I stole it, I mean like, I got a great deal on it. When he
says I stole it, I kind of feel like it's kind of a negative thing. I don't want
to put word to his mouth, but it kind of feels like a negative thing. Like you
stole it from it. I don't. I'm going to assume that's not what he means. You wrote
it. That's not true. Kevin rode the bike. I rode the bike. So what we do next is
he made a video response. People loved it. People are engaging with it. Then we go
to the comments because what we're trying to do? We're trying to understand our
content strategy. We were trying to understand the viewer. Paul Senior calling someone
else a drama queen is ultimate irony. He's the main star of the drama show.
So when you really start breaking it down and you start seeing the comments, it
gets real and you're starting to validate and also starting to create what your
content's going to be about. And then here's a cool thing. You're going to get
comments like this. It's going to give you video ideas. Build off against Paul
Senior and you can recruit Paul Jr. just to poke the bear. Like, look at that. 1
.1 ,000 people give it a thumbs up, and you're getting a lot of replies. I do love
how people defend when they actually know love and trust you, and they're really
engaging in a community. Bikes and Beers is one of the most entertaining motorcycle
channels on YouTube. You're playing in his world now. I just love that. So what did
Sean do? He went over, posted the video, says he's going to do a build -off,
question mark. He made that comment over on Paul Sr .'s video and literally got the
internet talking about this. He had 4 .9 ,000 people giving a thumbs up. You had
over 494 comments and replies. And ultimately, it was having this buzz happening
about, hey, guess what? Bikes and Beards is going to have a build -off against Paul
Sr. This is what audience development is all about. You're giving the viewer exactly
what they want. Also, the viewers actually know who you are, and that's why it's so
powerful of really getting your data points validated. So Sean is a master at this.
He has gone through the process of going through the comments, validating his
assumptions through surveys and in person, and it gave him clarity of who his viewer
is and who they're not, and what they find valuable, and what they don't find
valuable. And then they have opportunities like this to create a series of videos
that's really gonna take more viewers
actually use video after video until the build -off and the build -off will be an
epic moment that really were the community that people that love motorcycles together
and watch something that's going to be beautiful. So guys, this is what it's all
about. And I want you to truly understand how to really navigate and digest who
viewers are. And so I'm going to have you watch another presentation right now of
one of my inner circle students, John Mulecki. And this is a presentation that he
gave at VidSummit and we're going to get really into really understanding who we're
creating content for and then also understanding their makeup and their breakdown on
a very deep level. We start going into how we decide who we're making our content
for. And for a long time, we made content for this dude. His name's Carl.
Carl's pretty handsome, if I might say so myself. But he's a 35 to 45 -year -old
male, he enjoys his hobbies. He's got a couple kids. He has expendable income to
invest in his hobbies, which is important. He'd rather build something than buy
something because he does have an ego that makes him believe he can do it better
than what he can buy. He enjoys making pretty much anything. He likes to drink
beer. He likes barbecue. He likes whiskey. We got a ton of things that go into
this list. Crazy enough, I used AI to generate this photo, and like, that's like
Tom, you were totally right. But he looks just like me, which is crazy, right? And
for a long time,
our channel was about what John liked, what John wanted, what John did, right? And
so that's the kind of stuff I was making. Carl likes content like this. Beginner
tips for working with epoxy, how to finish a live edge slab, 10 tools, you know,
building a
studio. This is the back end. These are your analytics. These are things you should
be looking at constantly. I've been talking to a lot of you while we're here, and
I'm literally going into your studios and pulling up these graphs. These are what
they are, right? So you can see here a large portion, and I can't read those
numbers on the mini screen, so I'm going to look over here, of the audience is in
the 25 to 55 years old, right? So when I defined Carl, he was right in the middle
of that, right? And that large percentage is important to note when we're moving
into the next slide.
So our goal, come on, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me, give it to
me, or get, let's go. Come on.
The next slide, if it ever shows up, what am I doing wrong here, guys?
Oh, oh, oh, there we go. So you can see here those videos, and this is obviously
a...
I have those videos 8 .1 million views, right? I've also got these videos on my
channel. That's our highest performing video ever. That was from the glorious year of
2018. I still have yet to beat it, which is ridiculous. Makes no sense. But over
time, I started testing new things because as YouTubers, we either become bored and
complacent with our creativity, or we see things working for other creators, and we
try that, or more or less, we are just innately never satisfied with where things
are at the moment. So we start pushing and progressing things. So I came up with
these concepts for building impossible tables during the pandemic, and the channel
really started to pick up a lot of steam, change my thumbnail strategy a little
bit, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, yada. And these videos have 11 .8 million views
between the four of them, which is pretty rad. And these were a little bit
different in delivery. For a long time in my career, I thought I here to educate
and like teach people how to build stuff. I thought I was like a guy that people
looked to to like learn the craft of woodworking at a very deep and intricate level
and I thought it was important for me to improve and they'd improve with me. And
so I made a lot of those videos for a long time. And I'm going to show you in a
graph here exactly when I stopped doing that. But these videos, I'm having a lot
more fun. I'm experimenting. I'm not really going that deep into it. I'm just like
trying, trying new stuff failing on camera, which is very different in the maker
space or in the builder space. A lot of guys build stuff and never show you that
they're screwing up like 87 times before they put the clip into the video. I want
to say I was an early mover. I'm not going to claim being the first guy, but I
was the first guy to start showing that he screws up like way more often. And with
that, a lot of these experimental buckets came from me and I started to see a lot
more views. Anyone see something different in this graph of the age demographic of
that audience?
It was supposed to have like a little arrow. Let me go back. Like I said, 20
years saw my last presentation. But that 18 to 24 year old block is considerably
higher and I think I have a side -by -side coming. I didn't realize this for like
years after the fact, right? I just wasn't looking at that data and, like, didn't
make any sense to me. But now that I'm looking at it, I was like, man, was I
stupid? But point being, 21 % of the audience for that bucket,
which, uh, hint, hint of what's coming, uh, that new Joe videos bucket was in that
age demographic. You can see here, 9 % of that audience, so that's a 12 % difference
was, um, in the videos that old Carl was watching, right? right? So that is an
indicator, if you're ever looking for one in your audience, if you have
discrepancies. We're going to go deeper, but this started to paint a picture for me
at a certain point on who the hell was watching my content, which is our number
two most valuable thing, right? So when you look here, the next thing that I said
about Carl's videos was how much was the channel growing? Well, we've got 112 ,700,
whatever that rest of that number is. I can't see. On those videos, that's how many
new subscribers we got. You can see all the money and blah, blah, the rest of it,
because we're transparent here.
11 ,000, 11 million views, right? So we got more views and picked up more subs.
Everyone in this room that makes videos, what are you probably going to do if you
see that in a content bucket?
You're going to do more of them, right? Not me.
The tutorial -based content was where my heart and soul was, right? I started the
channel because I truly believed people wanted to learn from me how to do
woodworking at a high level. Go John. The entertaining content was performing better,
but I really wasn't bought into it quite yet. And you could, there's the arrows.
You can see over the years, things changed. And that's when we decided that our
audience that was actually growing the channel, they needed their own name. And this
is Joe. Ironically, the dude running around with the camera taking photos of me
that's been with me wearing with my t -shirt and is on my team. His name's Joe,
too. And he happens to be 24 years old and we may have just copied him and this
dude looks just like him. Anyway, Joe spends a lot of time at his desk. And
everything that's on this list, I'm going to show you like how I got there within
the next 26 minutes before I get kicked off stage. He spends a lot of time at his
desk. He enjoys learning how things are made, even though he may never make them.
I'm going to say that out loud again. He enjoys seeing how things are built, even
though he may never make them.
He's much more money aware because younger generations these days weren't being, money
wasn't being hitting from them. They're on the internet. They know how much things
cost, and there's a ton of us YouTubers talking about money nowadays, right? He
plays video games. He likes electronics. He's working from home, which means he's
spending most of his time at his desk because you play video games at the desk
that you work at, which is a thing that I didn't know because I've never had a
desk. And he likes to communicate with his friends and gifts and memes. That's
important. So how can we make content for him? That's the next question we've got
to ask. Your content starts with your audience first. I am sorry all of you who
think that you are like infinitely creative and your art is everything. It doesn't
work on YouTube or in business or in life. Anyone know how many paintings Vincent
Van Gogh sold before he died? Exactly.
over and over again. But if they're not working, stop. Try new stuff,
right? If you want to get different results, you've got to try new things. If
you're on YouTube making videos that aren't working, you should probably try what?
Hey,
didn't work. I'm an idiot. But that seems pretty obvious, right? And so how can we
best serve new Joe with more content? And so something that I've learned over the
years that works really well online or in
building stuff, you got to throw shit at the wall and try to get it to stick in
order to keep your views going, right? So that's what I was doing. We were doing
vlog content here. You can see at the top, everyone wave high to Jordan. He just
moved back to Pittsburgh, by the way.
Noise control, that's what that was. YouTube seems to love vlogs, right? John's going
to try vlogging. Cool. I bought a sawmill. Made some content there. Sawmill was
doing solid, right? You know, a couple hundred thousand views and whatnot. And then
we got this other buckets on the side. Me doing TikTok trends that I found on the
internet, and then buying pallets of return tools.
I'll give a high five, a hug, and a chest bump to anyone that can tell me where
those two ideas have potentially been seen here at VidSummit. Wild! Yes.
Hope and Tyler were like, go make these videos now, and I fought him for a year.
Anyway, that's when I started making those videos. See, we're, okay, so it might not
show up here because of the graph haven't been working, but I started trying new
things. And with that, I, it's because I could see that value. You see how my
content is progressively over 2022 going down? It's pretty common here with creators.
You hit something, it works. You keep doing it over and over and over again, and
then it stops performing because people get bored with it and whatever. And so
you're looking at my content in 2022 come down. And we hit a point where I didn't
post and it like was literally the lowest it's ever been. So let me start to make
a new stuff.
Because I interpreted the data as you are losing and I don't like losing. You know,
I'm a sports guy. Played for a pretty good teams and they didn't lose. I don't
want to lose. Right. So how do we serve new Joe? Well, consistency is something
that I'm adamant about. If you're a YouTuber and you want to get good, make more
videos, watch more videos. It's the first thing that you can do. I don't care about
anything else that's going on. You post once a month and you're like, oh, my
channel's not growing. Post twice a month. Woo! Give yourself twice as many chances
to grow. So that's what we were going to do. We're going to post frequently. We're
going to try new videos. We came up with a bunch of videos that we thought would
pertain to New Joe because that's where we saw our growth bucket. And you can see
those here, testing TikTok tools, dream shop builds, buying return pallets, listical
type videos. That was another bucket that I needed an easier bucket to go into,
right? Three levels, which is an old school bucket for us of people
When you don't post and you see your videos going down between posts, it means that
people aren't watching your back catalog. And there's a bunch of reasons why that
happens. And so when I started to do this in 2023, and I started to see that
between my posts, I was getting these massive bombs. Look at how high those spikes
are, right? And that's one day. Just so, you know, those spikes are one day's worth
the views, they're between like 300 and 375 ,000 views in a day. And then the
bottoms of them are in like the 40s. It's ridiculous. And it's almost like the kiss
of death. Like I'm putting in reps, but I'm getting destroyed on non -posting days.
And if I want to take a break, that's like the sign that you're going to die if
you take a break, right? And so what I year here at vid summit it was something
that absolutely changed the dynamic of our channel and the way i think about content


