3 Creating Engaging Content Planning Stage

training today, Monday at 10 a .m. Mountain Time. Super excited to be with all of
you. Now, you'll notice that Jackson is not here on the call today. He had a baby,
baby Jet on Friday. Mom, baby, husband, our dad,
all doing well. And so for all of you that sent your warm hugs and praises and
prayers and all this stuff, thank you. It was much appreciated and he wanted me to
send his love and thanks to all of you um okay now on that one too don't forget
everyone when you're jumping on here change it from hosting panelists that blue
button to hosting panels to everyone so we can all see your amazing beautiful
comments and stuff so yeah here's where we're at we're getting some amazing training
section two i still I still talk to so many people about how important and amazing
it is, understanding this incredible trifecta when it comes to creating content and
being an influencer, being an entertainment company,
that it starts with you, your wise, your goals, who you are as a person. Ooh,
I'm going to do it with this one. If you notice, like with VidSummit YouTube
channel, we've been releasing shorts now. And one of them that I love was Mr.
Beast. He was asked a question by John Nushai. He goes, the question was roughly,
hey,
what is your advice for new YouTubers starting out? And especially in a saturated
niche. He goes, I don't believe in saturated niches because if you are yourself, you
are already different. And so all you have to do is look at what's going on and
say, okay, how can I make a video a little bit better with me as a person? And
that's why I think so key and important is remembering that you as content creators,
you guys all have an incredible value that you bring to people and to connect with
people. So we remember that your goals, who you are, what you stand for, your
beliefs, your mission, your vision, your purpose, all that is incredible. And then we
learned in Section 2 in the beginning of YouTube is that YouTube wants to help
viewers find content that they love. So it's not trying to push videos to the
viewer. It's trying to pull as that quote from Todd. It's trying to pull the right
videos for the viewer. So if you can create those videos that YouTube can pull to
them, either knowing, you know, what's the device type? Are they watching on TV? Are
they watching from their mobile and desktop? How are they consuming? And then when
they consume, how they consume, how is it being served to me? Is it coming from
the home page? Is it from suggested? So then you start to understand a little bit
of that on YouTube's end to better understand the viewer and who they are. Again,
just like your psychographics, their psychographics, their needs, their wants, their
desires, their mission, their vision, their purpose of what they're doing. Are they
coming onto YouTube to escape to be entertained or to be entertained to learn Thank
you.
how do we understand YouTube and us, what is the content that is happening out
there? How can I analyze that content, make sure I can bring value to the viewer?
So I had this great call earlier beforehand with an amazing golf channel. And he
went around and did golfing in the worst, the worst golf courses,
the one -star golf courses around the U .S. And he's like, oh, I got that idea from
Ryan Trahan three years ago at Vid Summit. And I said, awesome. So again, then all
these other people started copying me. I'm like, cool. Tell me about the storyline
of Ryan Trahan and why that's so amazing. Why people want to watch his one -star
reviews. He's like, huh, that's interesting. I mean, we were just going and reviewing
the golf course. And why are they still in business? I'm like, no, no, no, no.
It's a redemptive storyline. It's a conversation of these are one stars,
but there's got to be something beautiful happening there. And there's got to be a
reason to give them a five star. And you watch like the one star hotel where Ryan
Trahan went and he got to know the bellhop and the people up front. And the little
things that they did, he goes, wow, that was really special. And finding the beauty
in the negative, because there's so much negative in the world. And Ryan Tran does
an incredible job about this. He finds the beauty in the negative and wraps the
story around that that you go, wow, these hotels are awesome. And it's people that
are like those people that are working that one star hotel. Guess what? They're
people and they're trying their best and they're working hard. And that's incredible
that way. Just because it's not a super fancy hotel that has all the bells and
whistles and stuff like that doesn't mean he's a five star or it doesn't deserve a
five star, but the people there made the difference. And I thought that was
beautiful. And we had that conversation. I'm like, when you go to the golf, these
golf courses, find your redemptive story on why this golf course is still running.
Why is it? Is it somebody that's working there? What is it about certain things? He
goes, oh, I'm like, that's what will set you apart from everybody else trying to
copy you is finding your voice and creating a beautiful story in it.
So that's where that's where we're going in this in this this phase as we go into
section three in section four and developing all this so i hope you guys are all
extremely excited to have that oh i'm glad it gave you an aha moment so that's
where we're at darrell
we're all ready for you and this is going to be amazing yeah really excited today
guys um but big big um big big kudos to Jackson. You know,
going from one kid to two kids is a very big deal. And also, I just want you
guys to know for us, like, we view people that work with us as family,
you know, we wish him the best, but honestly, just to see the smile on his face
and his daughter's face and to know that mom is doing just fine it's that's that
just that means everything to us it really does so really love them uh Jackson you
should not be watching this why are you watching this stop it get back to your
family that's important he's not on right now but he's gonna do the replay I know
he is so yeah okay so um we're gonna dive right in today and this is where the
rubber meets the road and so I want to just give some clarity on where we're at.
So basically, we're trying to understand the potential viewer. This is the new viewer
that will be watching the content, and part of it is understanding what's going to
bring them value. But more importantly, we want the new viewer to be able to click
and engage with our content. There's certain things that you can do pattern -wise to
make that happen. Also, Our goal would be making sure that the offering of our
values so good that we convert a new viewer into an active viewer,
which is a returning viewer. These are the two things that we look at very
dramatically when we're actually doing Channel Jumpstart and ultimately is part of our
mind and our process to basically make that happen. That being said,
when we're consistent with our active viewers, we're consistent in release time,
consistent in our storytelling, that would actually engage core viewers that are never
going to miss a video, hardcore viewers that are going to evangelize for us.
And so our goal in this is to really break down and really develop the potential
and active viewers so that as we're consistent, they would engage the core and
hardcore viewers. So that being said, we need to really understand the viewer. And
the best way to understand the viewer is to actually have YouTube tell us who that
viewer is. And so this is where I want everyone to, you know,
after this training session to go and do this process. And this replay will be up
by the end of the day and you're going to be able to go and just kind of mimic
the things that we're looking to do. But our whole goal is to have YouTube tell us
exactly what's going to work for our viewer. However, what we need to do is have a
really good understanding of what the viewer wants. And that's why we went very in
depth on the viewer intention. And then what we want to do is to see the
coordinating suggestions that YouTube's going to do. So what we're going to do is
create a brand new YouTube account. And when you create a brand new YouTube account,
what we're going to do is have this be your recon account. This recon account is
to give you ideas for content that's going to work with your audience. But it's
also going to give you an understanding what YouTube's going to recommend for that
particular viewer. So this is a brand new account you can see here. Try searching
to get started, start watching videos to help build your feed of videos you'll love.
So what YouTube's doing is a blank slate. So by doing this, you can see I'm
clicking on the homepage, homepage right here, there's no videos that come up, and
YouTube wants a data point. Now there's two ways to do it. Number one is to give
side of our own echo chamber or vacuum chamber of viewing. What we want to do is
be really, really broad and then kind of work our way down. So for this example,
I'm going to actually start a brand new YouTube channel. This brand new YouTube
channel is going to be about travel, okay? And I'm going to be that broad on the
type of channels and videos that I'm looking for. So I'm looking at the results
right here. And I can see this video right here is nine days old.
It has 1 .1 million views. I can kind of tell that this is a YouTuber that's been
around for a little bit just because of the way the thumbnail looks. And also,
you know, there's that little verified,
you know, channel. So I'm going to dig into this just a little bit. So right now,
you can see, and I'm going to let this play, and we're not going to play audio,
but we're to just let this play. Drew actually has 4 .6 million subscribers,
and this video right here is going out with the subscribers, but it also has 1 .9
,000 comments. Now, the comments is what I'm the most injured.
I can come and look very specifically, is this the type of channel that I'd want
to have it be a part of my recon and research? And I would say kind of.
And the reason why is, you know, what I'm looking for is high views,
low subscribers, because that shows me exactly that the viewerships based on value of
that video instead of value coming from a channel. And there's kind of that
crossover. However, that being said, there's some videos that don't perform very well
and other videos that perform really well. And so want to be able to learn from
that per se. And the best way to do that is to come back to that original video.
And now knowing that Drew might be a channel that we'd want to follow, we might
copy the URL for this specific channel or the specific video to kind of hold a
little bit deeper. But I'm not going to do that per se. I think he's too seasoned
for me. I want to look at somebody a little bit more new or has some nuance,
but I've got to give YouTube a little bit of data. So what we're trying to do is
watch content, engaged with content, kind of like what a viewer would do. And then
what we want to do is come back to, oops, don't want that. Give me one second.
Okay.
What we want to do is give YouTube a little bit more data, but come back to the
homepage, because homepage will give us the right recommendations that we want.
Okay. So this being said, Now YouTube's giving me a whole bunch of different videos
based off of that one data point. All I did was search. I watched a video, went
to a channel, came back to a video, and now it's giving me some very interesting
information, which is YouTube's to watch. Now, what I do next will start refining
what YouTube shows me. Now, that being said, I want you to look right here. Based
off the search. Now I have other categories, camping, architecture, news, villages,
gaming, national parks, Canadian football, where did that come from, geography,
streets, history, restaurants, so on and so forth. So it's trying to narrow down
what would actually be interesting. Now, I'm going to click on another one because
this one's an interesting title. I visited the most remote country in the world. For
me, that's an interesting thing. I love travel. I love travel that's remote. That
could be really interesting. Month ago, we have 4 .1 million views.
My question is, what type of views are these? Let's kind of dive right into it.
So here we are. Okay, he has 13 million subscribers, four million views.
So he's getting a different variety, but you can see we have Arabic here.
want to save it, but not necessarily yet. I want to be able to start looking for
the type of viewer I want. And right now, I don't want an international audience. I
want a U .S. audience. And the reason why I want a U .S. audience is because I
want my core audience and my active viewership come from the United States so I can
have the highest revenue that's coming in. Okay, coming back to this, let's kind of
look a little bit deeper. I'm going to go back and hit the YouTube video. And the
reason why I hit the home page again is I just keep wanting to YouTube to kind of
refine, and I want to click and refine a little bit. Drew actually comes up with
another video, which is interesting, exploring America's poorest regions alone.
I really like that thumbnail. He's probably a content creator I should follow based
off of this. I can start seeing that we have primitive homes being built here. We
have Yes Theory that's popping off. We even have a Mark Robber video. So YouTube's
really trying to understand who and what I'm doing here.
Now,
visiting the most dangerous roads, that's an interesting one. I'm going to click on
that very specifically. Once again, 10 million subscribers, let's look at the type of
views. Looks like it, you know, most of them are in English, which is good.
A lot of comments on this one. Let me go to the first to kind of see where
that's at. Yeah, it looks like it's a variety, but it looks like the bulk of the
comments are coming from the United States, which is good. I'm going to go ahead
and hit it one more time. And let's go ahead and still go down and see what's
going on here. Let me hit one more time here. Okay, so it's given us some
different results. We're seeing Ryan Cherryhan come up. We're also seeing this guy
right here. It looks like a $30 million Mansion versus Hurricane, so it probably is
dealing with something relevant there. Let me take a look here.
We got top 25 places to visit in the U .S.
This one is interesting. So I know this content creator does these really long
documentaries, makes a ton of money. I am interested in this one.
It's very interesting, but we can kind of, we can kind of dig deep into this.
I was just looking for any other little things that would be interesting. I think
I'm going to, I think I'm going to do that one. So we'll go on Peter's channel
real quick, give it some data points, and look at what's actually coming up.
So the key for this is when we're trying to find the viewer,
what we're trying to do is can we find a viewer that would kind of engage with
the type of content that would actually be relevant to my viewer?
And a lot of that is really digging deep into the comments and the psychology of
it to see exists, is this my actual audience? So I would say the storytelling
aspect of it, these are really great comments when you actually get this many
comments and, you know, you have 531 replies. It's a really, really big deal. Okay.
So coming back to this, we can see he's up in Palmer, Alaska, which is a really
cool town.
And, you know, it's very interesting. However, that being said, you know,
trying to find something that would work for this scenario,
we might need to go a little bit deeper on our search. So for me, I'm trying to
give YouTube enough data point of something that we can do. So I'm going to just
add a variation to it, which is the word weird, travel, because, you know,
when there's weird or different type of travel, it literally locks in and connects a
little bit differently. Once again, Drew's at the top. So, Strangest Cities. So he's
coming at the top. Drew does, I'm going to click on this one, World's Weirdest
Stores, Click on that a little bit. Oh, yeah, I've seen this guy before.
This is really cool. And so you could see, it has 679 ,000 subscribers,
has a 4 .4 million views. The comments, let's go ahead and sort by the first.
I love time codes. When they're doing time codes, that's a very, very big deal. But
it's probably this store that's doing it because it says moon and stars, and the
beginning of that was moon and stars. And then two, another time code from there.
And you can see, let's see the most engaged comments on it. Top comments.
Yeah, I mean, this would actually have a lot of my parameters I'm looking for.
There's another one here that 21 million views a year ago.
So this one is by the same creator. And so what we want to do is give YouTube a
lot more context by clicking on the recommended content on the side. And so I'm
going to go ahead and do that real quick. And then we're going to deep dive into
this one real quick.
I don't think I shared the sound, so let me do that real quick on this, and see
if this is the type of content I'd create.
A gaming capsule hotel, illusion rooms, and things I can't even explain. Starting
with a massive pink candy hotel. The entrance is covered with giant candies and
sweets. Wow. There's even this creepy robot tree that talks to you. Oh, you gotta
bend your limbs a bit when you're a tree. This really might be the strangest
looking hotel in Japan, and inside it just gets crazier. Oh, wow. This is
ridiculous. Welcome to my room for tonight. This is the bed, but all the pillows
are donuts. There is a couch, but it's not that. All right, this guy's actually
really good. Like, I would say, having 21 million views a year ago,
let's kind of dive deeper. But before I do, what I want to do is give
That's awesome. Just found your channel. This video is incredible, well done.
I really like this. Anytime saying you can do the Cartoon Network Hotel.
Okay, that's interesting. So you're giving ideas and stuff like that, which is great.
That being said, I'm starting to see other channels that their content would watch.
Mr. Beast, we have Dylan, we have Ben, We have Ryan Treyhan. We have Hope Scope.
We have Dr. Plants. Another Ryan Treyhan,
Alex Rivera. So I would say this would actually appeal to a younger audience.
So we're looking at older Gen A, Gen Z, maybe some millennial.
We got David Rule here as well.
NASDA Daily. We're also seeing the next up video, which is Drew does,
which is his channel. Look at that, 6 .7. So this is a 21 million,
6 .7. These are really, really good thumbnails. I'm going to go into this one.
Let's play a $1 ,000. This is a glass hotel room in public. A wooden horse mansion.
A $1 ,000 a night resort in a crane and i'll be staying in all of them and more
starting with my see -through glass room staying here is actually free all right i i
can tell you this guy's going to be massive um just just off the gate i'm already
interested in the 10 seconds we're going to get into the ideation of how to put
your content together but he has all the elements for really great storytelling he
has great pacing and then too uh there's There's a lot of curiosity. He showed
enough that got people to figure out what is the weirdest hotels in the world. Once
again, great comments on this. People taking picks of you while you're sleeping as
such creeps. That's pretty funny. There's some really cool stuff in here. I love the
time codes. Remember, I'm always looking at great time codes. It gives me a lot of
context. This one's a very interesting comment. I'm very curious about prices per
night for each.
I don't know if he did or not, because I haven't watched the full video yet.
Because it's probably the least private. I don't know if he did or not. But if he
did, that's something that it's being validated.
If he didn't, that's a great idea of moving forward that people are actually wanting
to learn. Okay.
My thing would be is really a channel. Let's see if it has the mark.
So I think it has the mark in the sense of 679 ,000. Okay.
And let's look at the total thing. So he's still releasing. Looks like he's doing
about every month or so that he's releasing. And he just barely started.
You can see he started two years ago, just about every month or so, give or take.
very, very cool. I'm also seeing a couple things here.
I think it's like interesting travel, unique places, weird things could be his niche.
But that being said, we gave it a pretty decent data point. So I want to come
back to this. And I want to show you what just came up. Okay,
now this is where I
channel in there. I want to dig deep into the channel and really start understanding
that. But I'm starting to see some commonalities. So right here,
real life Avatar Mountains, three days in. We have Joel Friend. And it's a,
you know, 122 ,000 viewed, you know, video,
interesting. I'm going to break it down. We see Drew again, and we see Ryan again.
We see another one right here. Number nine, riding America's longest ferry to Alaska.
Okay, that's interesting. We're going to probably click on that one in a second.
Also, starting to see Mr. B, starting to see some other channels that would be
relevant.
Realistically, these are a dime a dozen type type things, but the thumbnails is,
do you see the similarities of the thumbnails? If you do, go ahead and put it in
the comments because it's like you're starting to see, hey, certain thumbnails respond
to a certain type of viewer. And now knowing that these viewers are pretty much Gen
A to younger millennials, it's great. This one's very interesting.
Overnight, cozy airplane house. I'm going to probably click on that one. Trent, the
traveler, he looks interesting from my point of view. Different type of thumbnail,
not really in the face type of thumbnail. You know, might appeal to the audience
that I'm looking for. I don't think I want Gen A. I would rather have our older
Gen Z and a stronger millennial audience, just because of the revenue is high.
This is interesting, too. Abandoned pallets, man builds house. Okay,
that's pretty interesting.
Let's go back up and do this one. I want to watch this a little bit.
Whoa.
That's pretty good hook. I'm not going to lie. Really, really good hook. I can tell
the type of content creator because I've done this enough.
It's interesting. And I think the audience that's looking at is they're very curious
to say in unique places in the world.
Out of the view ratio, the comment ratio is high. And it's interesting.
Very, very interesting.
What I love about this is, this is a 36 -minute video,
and he probably made some decent money. Look at the engagement. I like to roll over
the engagement, so you can see the engagement.
And guaranteed this one is interesting. There's so much that's going on.
Mine doesn't have the original seats. It's got like some computer chairs. This is
definitely a bigger plane because the cockpit has way more space.
Yeah, I could fly one of these. Easy. No big deal or anything. And you know, now
that I'm looking at this, like being a pilot, you really don't have that good of a
field of view. It is very tight quarters in here.
All right, so it looks like the progression of just staying there and all the cool
things that he's finding and the story behind, like this is probably the guy that
owns it and the story behind. But when you're looking at the value prop is the
curiosity got the click and they want to see everything that's going on. They want
to discover. So that discovery is a really big thing, especially around something
unique. That is basically the value prop that we're coming into is that that
discovery and the storytelling that can go in depth on that.
So coming back to this, there's so much that we can do. I want to go and see if
we can find something else. And this guy looks like he's getting momentum.
He's about hit a million subscribers, which is fine. But, you know,
the results are changing a little but it looks like they're aging up a little bit
which is good and maybe we just need to hit another video or two on this to give
a little bit more context so I'm going to do this one right here van life so it
looks like it's van life uh one um but let's see what's going on this is Alaska
one here too
That was a little bit different of a hook. And maybe it's more about the serenity
than anything else. I'm going to come back to the YouTube homepage and see what's
transformed. And so now,
you know, it has transformed. It's starting to age me up a little bit in my
viewership, which is good. That's what I was wanting.
And looking at this, and this is a testament that YouTube's promoting you,
regardless of what you think, Together with Talia, 52 views, like YouTube would not
be showing this. You know, it's not only showing big channels, it's like, they have
52 views on this two days ago. So these are new channels. But what you need to do
is refine and get the right type of viewer. And for me,
you know, you can always clean it up on your watch history and really start to
understand it. But I'm starting to get some really interesting searches here.
And some of these searches are really cool in the sense of what YouTube's
recommending me.
I'm going to click on this one. OK, everyone. The day has 1 .1 million views, 123
,000 subscribers. I'm going to be staying in Fawthie in Scotland for the first ever
time. Let's go.
Got the standard, standard music for travel vloggers. I've always wanted to do. It
looks so much fun and I've got a huge big bag of firewood with me I've got a
lighter so I'm looking forward to lighting a fire in the body tonight as well in
the distance there there's a lock coming into view wow just so peaceful so one
thing I noticed about this is really in depth like look at the comments to view
ratio it's through the roof like way through the roof where another one had a
hundred hundred and or a
which is awesome
okay I want to do a little bit more research on Ruth here see what her contents
about and see if she had any other anomaly so I always come in to look at the
most popular as the most popular and it looks like she's just around traveling
bought a van in Scotland doing some Scotland wild stuff,
Scottish travel, looks like.
Okay, I don't want to localize for one area. I think that's a big mistake.
Especially with travel vloggers, unless you have to. I want to be able to find kind
of that theme or the engagement there. So going a little bit more in depth.
I want to see if there's any other things that... It looks like there's some
abandoned stuff.
Okay.
This is a dang good thumbnail, guys. 100 % one of the best thumbnails that I saw
all day. Living alone in the wild Siberian forest negative 71 Celsius has 22 million
views, and I can tell you why. It just really pulled it out.
Don't mind this. This is a little tool that I'll be showing how to use here a
little bit. But that is a really, really powerful thumbnail because it's different
than everything else that pulled it out. And I'm like, wait, what? You know, it's
snow covered. So I want to dive into this one real quick and see what's going on
here.
In the vast endless icy forest of Siberia, where the temperature rose to unimaginable
minus 70 degrees Celsius, lies the small wooden house. So the curiosity factor is
living alone in Siberia for 20 years. It's very, very interesting.
But what had me is more the temperature, just like it was very interesting.
Okay. So that being said, there's a lot that you can do. I'm going to play this a
little bit longer.
If I was gearing for more kids, I would want to have it be more kids related. But
that is interesting.
And then two, wow, really cool thumbnails here.
There's another one. He lives down there inside his amazing home and the tunnels
beneath New York City. I'm going to click on that one. Guaranteed, I'm going to
click on that one. I'm very curious on
But look at the engagement and all the thumbs up and so on, which is so cool,
which is they're watching the full thing. They're engaging with it. They're seeing
someone through that eyes and giving kind of that documentary fill.
But yeah, definitely, you know, she looks like it has quite a few subscribers.
But I'm more curious on this one because that one actually looks.
Let me watch this real quick. You live in the tunnel? I live in the tunnel.
Years ago, I explored the Freedom Tunnel, an Amtrak train tunnel that runs under the
West Side Highway in New York City.
I came here looking for mole people, a name given to the homeless who live in the
tunnels beneath the city. Okay, so a couple things is it looks like he's,
you know, going through and you're seeing things that you probably didn't know
existed. Now, I click on it because it was like a weird location and it was like
he lives here. I didn't know as about homeless until we started to watch the video.
So
really, really cool. I think it's a great setup. This is an eight -minute video. my
question would be is, is that, based on what we just saw, is that really good?
Could it have been more engaging? I don't know. I literally don't know. I need to
go through the comments. But look at it, 19 ,000 comments. Like, this is literally
what I'm looking for. So what we want is high, high viewership,
high comment ratio, low subscriber. That tells you have a hidden gym here, okay? We
need to know what it is. Okay, what is the hidden gym? Living in a tunnel, but
more polite, better manners than most people living comfortably. So it has a lot to
do with, you know, heart -wrenching
I would have to watch the whole video to see what that's about.
I've been homeless before. So, yeah, he's really talking about homelessness.
And so I think a lot of people were homeless before, and they're showing respect,
which is cool.
I want to check out this guy's channel here and see what type of content that he
creates. Independent filmmaker creating documentary films.
Okay.
Okay. This is probably the best thing that you can possibly see in Channel
Jumpstart. Okay. If you do not look at this,
this way, I want to reset your mindset.
Okay,
what is the value proposition of this video? And what is the value proposition of
this channel? So Eric's pretty clear. He's saying that he's an independent creator,
creating documentary films on a variety of topics, homelessness, history.
Okay, we can go into the depth, but when I'm going to, I'm going to sort by the
most popular real quick, okay?
So the one we click on, great, great video. I was very curious. That was great,
great titling, structure, great, great thumbnail. But what does the first,
the first four videos have in common. Okay.
Interesting places where people are living, but it's also, these first two are about
mole people, the people that live underground, okay? And so the curiosity factor of
how people are living their day to day, homeless, okay? That's the first four
videos. We're looking at this one, living rent -free on boats.
Okay, that's interesting. Okay, he lives here. Okay, that's interesting. Erasing a
culture. Living for free on the water. Okay. This one's different,
a true story of, okay, so he's going in more of a history documentary. 11 months
ago, but this one is a month ago, two years ago, a year ago, a year ago, year
ago, two years ago, two years ago. Okay. Now, if we flipped this of the latest
video, what this video right here,
it's a great idea for content, okay? It's a horrible idea for a content strategy,
okay? Which is, I gave a homeless man an e like. Doesn't fit the channel. Okay.
Now, this is the most important thing, guys. That doesn't mean that you can't do
that. What you want to do that is take that five minutes and shorten it down to
maybe three minutes and put it in a video. Okay, put it in a video. But what type
of video should this, should we have? The type of videos that are here are all
around people living in interesting locations, okay? And if you want to do homeless,
that's fine. I wouldn't kind of pigeonhole the homeless stuff. I would just say
people that live in interesting locations. Okay. I also see that they're doing it
rent -free or, you know, it could be like they're living off of the land.
I think you could do it very, very interesting. Okay. This right here,
if you look at every video that has views, it will tell you the type of content
strategy you should do. So don't do this one. Put this into content, right? Living
free on the water. Okay, that's perfectly in line. He lived 40 years on a boat.
Now faces destruction. That could be with the hurricane and, you know, there's a lot
of stuff that's going on. I think it could be a better title, interesting,
government crackdown on Richardson Bay. Not so much. It's like,
okay, we don't want the government cracking down. We want to know how people are
living. The government crackdown might be a part of the storytelling. Okay. You can
see right here, there's not a lot that's interesting, but the ones that actually do,
when you really break down the most they all have this, this specific thing, okay?
Now, that being said, this might be a channel that we might want to discover a
little bit deeper, but ultimately I want to come back to the homepage and see, is
there a new strategy that just changed? Now, notice that all my thumbnails changed,
and it literally brought in a more, an older audience, because a lot of these other
audiences that are younger wouldn't necessarily engaged with me as much. Okay. So I
want to, I want to see what's going on here.
It brought this thumbnail back. So this might be a video that we should consider,
which is exploring America's poorest regions alone,
which is fine. Ghost Towns is interesting. This is, once again,
if you don't believe that YouTube promote small channels this is a proof that it
does gray dog adventures 62 views one day ago okay i'm going to click this video
because this is actually my backyard okay this is like literally down the road for
me okay i know exactly where that bridge is at it's in rockville utah okay i'm
going to play this real quick let's give them let's give them a view here
I made my way back into Utah and I am standing in a ghost town that is called
Grafton and it is basically right just a few miles from Zion National Park and just
look at this landscape.
find me going to a resort unless I go to an event. I like to go see the world,
but I want to see the world in the culture. And so part of it would be going to
places that most people has never gone to, you know, maybe a handful of people.
You know, ghost towns are interesting. You know, this one's not too far away from
me. But if you look here, just off of that one result,
the 69 views that was on that video that was released, there's another one says
Northern Montana Ghost Towns and Abandoned Places. I'm going to go ahead and click
on this one. In this video, okay, once again, this has everything that I want,
okay? It has low subscriber count, high views and it has decent amount of comments.
Okay, let me go ahead and play it. We're gonna explore some ghost towns and
abandoned places in northern Montana. Most of them along highway too,
but some of these places are remote locations. So let's begin.
The first stop is gonna be Kevin Montana.
There's still some residents who live here. All right, so.
There's something here of value, okay? You can see where some value is in the
video, and luckily we can see exactly where the most engagement is, but man, they're
watching the whole video, right? And so I wanna dig into the comments a little bit
just to have an understanding of the viewer. And I'm telling you, great engagement
for this. It's striking to see the contrast of these old,
largely abandoned towns under the shadow of a passing train. Okay, that's interesting
in an Amazon ConExbox, right?
This is really good. I mean, there's a lot of interest in it. So if I was saying,
hey, the curiosity factor is what's actually happening here? There's a ghost town.
Why doesn't anybody live here anymore? Or if there's people that live here, where
did everybody go? What was that whole aspect of life? When did this all occur?
I also noticed that just from here, he went to 19 different locations in the same
place. And so this could have, you know, could have been interesting. They might
have skipped. You can kind of see, they skip to different places when they want to
see the different places. But this is doing what I want done more than you can
ever imagine. Like this, this is a vein that I want to really understand. So I'm
going to come back to him. I want to see, could we find a content strategy that
works and see, let's see his latest videos. I don't know what that is.
So you can see why that's off. It doesn't coincide with an abandoned place off of
the title. So maybe the titling's wrong. If you would have put like best of a
ghost town, you know, or ghost town in the universe or something, I don't know.
Holy crap. Look at that one. It has 4 .3 million views on it. In this video,
we're going to explore abandoned places along Route 66 in eight states only okay
really good comment comments on this one I'm really liking this video a lot actually
so
a lot of people made that six trips or they made trips on this one I think you
know it's showing you know where America was booming and now one of these spots are
not easy to read
or I'm sorry, one hour, 28 minutes. This is so cool. Route 66,
but also did a pretty cool job of making 66 locations. You guarantee you, I
guarantee you people are already, you know, watching this content, you know, engaging
at least, at least probably 20 minutes or so, if not longer. But look at these
comments. I mean, this does exactly what I'm looking for, okay?
And across the street is the beautiful sign.
So it looks like it was a grocery store, gas station, and a motel. All right.
Look,
here's the thing.
When we're looking to analyze content and where we're going, it's more about trying
to validate who our viewer is and try to take it in a certain direction.
And I'm going to click back because I think my content should change quite
dramatically.
And it was going down a vein that I actually want to go
Um, when, when we're breaking it down, I did not want a Gen 8 audience.
I know that me as a personality type, if I was making a channel that's traveling,
would not appeal to a younger viewer. I just, I just wouldn't. Um, maybe if I was
a little bit younger or if one of my kids was doing the channel, yeah, maybe,
maybe they could do it. And so I, I want, uh, I want to understand this on a
deep level. And so notice how my watching refine my home page.
I believe I have literally the audience that I'm looking for,
which is I want a lot of views. So with a lot of views, I know that there's a
lot of at least interest or it's multi -generational. So it's like going more than
just demographic. There's like a value prop that's being engaged in there. But if
I'm looking at this, Lost Towns, Ghost Towns, you know,
I really like that. I gotta dig into this because I'm interested in this, which is,
I wanna play this without sound real quick and then and see what's coming up. 6 .6
million views, low subscriber. And so it tells me that there's interest,
right? So doing lost towns, mining, you know, this really cool thing.
They're looking for Uncle Sam's camp, I guess, you know, lost for a century. So
there's probably a story behind it. This looks more like TV to me. But that being
said, the comments is when I'm more particularly looking at when I'm trying to
understand the viewer. People have visited camp, you know, large buildings and bars.
I mean, some of these comments are really in depth. Look at that. Look at that.
So when I find stuff like this, and I feel like it's going down the type of
content I'm wanting to create, I want to save the URL. So I'm going to go ahead
to save this URL. I'm not saying we're going to do this one per se, but I want
to save it to analyze it a little bit deeper when we have some time because like
we're more about speed here of seeing some things and then to giving YouTube the
data that we're looking for, which is this right here, this ghost town living 1 .5
million four months ago. I want to click on that one. He has 1 .7 million
subscribers. The view to subscriber ratio is big.
I'm gonna, I gotta start this one over. Sorry, guys.
Because it looks like more of a blog, and I like to see these vlog type style. My
name is Brent, and I am headed deep into this mountain range you see behind me in
search of a lost mining trail. They used to connect some legendary mines back in
the 1800s.
These mines are long gone. The few ghost towns remain, and that's where I am
headed. This is Pat Keyes Mill. This hike is very remote.
It's going to be a brutal hike. A lot of the trail has just All right. This guy's
good. So I know it's in California. It kind of looked like Utah because of the
mountains, but it's the other side of the mountains where Utah kind of ends and so
on and so forth. What's really cool is little seasoned,
which I would say this is a person I'd probably want to follow a little bit.
So I'm going to go ahead and just save this
video and then all we want to do is kind of do some reconn research,
save videos that would
be a little bit more in depth of the viewer that we're looking to do.
The type of channel that I'd want to do is not just be documentary style, but like
exploration. So this one would hit the vein. So the type of content is I want to
explore the world. I want to go to places that are unique. I want to see things
that no one sees. And that's the value proposition. The value proposition would be
around, you know, discovering the world and the culture that we live in,
but through, through interesting places, they're interesting locations. So it's like
hidden things, hidden history, that type. It
Um, but he is, uh, uh, this is really cool. I,
I really like it. Okay. Now, notice again, this is showing Chris's channel.
I actually like Chris's channel too. In this video, he's not in front of the
camera. So the question would be is, uh, once again, a lot of views,
a lot of subscribers. If he would be in front of the camera, I think he'd have
better opportunity opportunity to connect. But man, this is like so good because I
feel like I found my vein of the type of content that would be interesting.
Okay. So coming back to YouTube, I'm going to show you how things have modified.
Okay. There's certain things that have never gone away and certain things that are
there. But If you were to look very specifically at my home page right here,
you can see that there's a lot of views. Then we have some that's just a few
views that just posted, okay, because they're really trying to figure out this whole
thing. But it's like there's certain things that are pulling up. So once again,
that Route 66, everything to do and see 1 .1 million views. I'm pretty much going
to say, look,
There's a lot of cool things that are there.
Okay, this is cool. Ruins in Fort Mojave has 100 ,000 views on it.
I like abandoned things, ghost towns. I'm gonna click on this one.
Okay, once again, this would actually have some of the stuff I'm looking for,
which is 14 ,000 subscribers, 61 ,000 views. That's not a lot of views, but it's
interesting in the sense.
I'm going to say it's interesting. We might be going down, like abandoned mines,
abandoned places, abandoned, ghost towns, whatever. So let's give it some context
here. Really, really good comments for it for the size of the channel,
size of the video.
Okay, this is an interesting thumbnail. They could have did a better job of this
thumbnail right here.
Cryptic staircase.
that that's a really cool hook um if you would have cut it right there uh 11 000
subscribers 700 000 views okay let me watch it a little bit there's obviously
another level
they can't believe how deep we are i can't believe they did this that's the longest
freaking
here.
Okay. So I want to take this home real quick and show you what we just did.
Okay.
We now have some data. I did it based off of me trying to find what would appeal
to the viewer. Now, a lot of it has to do with what I was looking for very
specifically for this example, which is I wanted a little older audience. And that
older audience, I didn't want it so older like Boomer, but I wanted to have someone
that was around something. So the value proposition was curiosity and really
discovering the world and the curious things in the world when it deals to the
location, Because that's what travel is for me. And then you'd pepper in kind of
the story of food or what have you. And when we come into it, you can start
seeing that my front page is refined.
Okay. It's very, very refined. And it's giving me a lot of different locations based
off of the viewership. Now, it's still bringing in this guy. Drew's like hammering
me right now, which is great. And I think Drew's channel, it's actually the audience
that's younger, but yet older, and this is why he's getting so much traction on it.
But there's some really cool videos. There's really cool video ideas.
And so what we're trying to do is have a good understanding of that. Now, I saw
in the comment, somebody was talking about the Desert Drifter and, you know,
let me maybe use him as a... Hey, everyone, it's Andrew from Desert Drifter. Today
I'm backpacking into a remote wilderness area. He would fit the vein that I'm
looking for. 300 ,000 subscribers, a lot of video views,
okay? I climbed an ancient ruin and found something you'd never seen before. So
curiosity factor for sure. I've got to let this play a little bit and yeah
this is this is gold this is gold
okay I got to save this this video and might
want to do the channel here give me one second
All right, that's this,
look at this.
So good.
Okay. So let me kind of break this down.
There's type of travel that's interesting. So there's the type of travel finding
really, really ancient things and trying to figure that out. That's what this value
prop is. Okay. He's not doing ghost towns that were were built, you know,
when people were coming here. What he's doing is the, like, the native people that
lived here in the area and what they live like. And then also just kind of the
stuff around. So it's very, it's very geared to, you know, ancient Americas or
ancient living. The other, the other one that I found is different.
It was more about things that are rusted or broken apart. And then that's that vein
that we're actually looking for. So for me, I probably, I'm more curious on a
little bit older. So like goats towns or abandoned buildings or whatever,
you know, I think could be fascinating. If I wanted to go down the desert drifter,
that's a totally different thing. Now, do you see the difference between the two,
you know, if I made abandoned, you know, abandoned buildings that are more modern
versus, you know, things that are way, way ancient, totally different vein. And I
can tell you that some would not want to click it. They'd rather, they're more
curious about that other than the newer. So even doing that is where your content
strategy comes down. So this remote trooper, I want to click on this one. Once
again, that has everything that I want, okay, which is low subscriber. And let's
look at the views on the sucker.
That's 4 million views.
It looks like it's just seen the old cars and stuff like that.
It's interesting.
It may have been a beer of some sort. Warranted.
Somebody had a 7 -Up.
That's crazy. Okay.
So when I try to break it down, I'm trying to figure out, number one,
who the audience is, number two, what the value proposition could be, and then
three, what is the delivery, the type of deliver. We saw a lot of different types
of delivery, okay? So coming back to the home page,
you can now see that things have modified quite dramatically, okay? And with this,
I can see the type of content that is of interest. And there's the videos that are
being recommended and suggested are based on the viewer. So I can tell that it's an
older engaged audience now because that's what we refined it to, to try to give a
little bit more context up.So if you notice that we're not getting a Ryan Treyhand, we got Yes, Theory,
because they're a little bit older, but we're not getting a Ryan Treyhand or a Mr.
Beast or whatever. You're not seeing into these results. We get Drew, and he's
probably the gold standard when it comes to this. But, you know, and outdoor boys
could possibly be. I mean, they have a younger and older audience. It's a multi
-generational audience. But I want to stay away from the bigger ones because I don't
want to get pigeonholed into this. I want to see kind of these outliers that
YouTube's recommending to us. And so part of this is really defining who the viewer
is and what they would be engaged with. So when we go down a little bit,
it's giving me a little bit more younger audience. I saw Zellis on here and a few
other ones.
But all in all,
That ghost town living is so good.
That's another video. I'm going to just click it because it's like another video.
Rebuilding the American Hotel. It's kind of my main goal up here. We were this
close. We were at the five yard line of getting this thing poured and being able
to frame right now and the flash flood hit. And so what we're going to do is
start down this steep wash and just hike down. Holy Look at this one.
Fearless, Fearless and Far. I got a quick bell. It's so sorry. This is a ghost
town of 500 abandoned Disney castles. A $200 million development project gone sour.
The company went bankrupt. Now, the question has to be asked. What do you even do
with a place like this? Just a quick second before we get started. I think I've
got something you might be interested. It's so interesting. Good thumbnail,
good, good engagement. I can see why he has 2 .8 million subscribers. Rebuilding the
American Hotel.
Very, very well done.
Let me go back to that channel. I've never seen. This is a ghost town.
Let's see if I've seen his videos before.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I probably wouldn't do this. I think I'd come up with video
ideas, but I probably wouldn't do this. He goes pretty deep into it. This is a
ghost. And I'm probably not that type of person, but I do like these types of
videos. So China's ghost town. The skyscrapers are empty. The streets are without
traffic and chilling silence. Once again, I'm looking for this. 2 .6 million views,
low subscriber, a lot of huge comments. Eminates throughout the area.
These are the scenes of China's ghost cities. These streets resemble abandoned or
evacuated cities from a zombie or nuclear apocalypse movie. But nobody even lived
here in the first place. I mean, abandoned cities,
abandoned ghost towns. I mean, there's some really cool ones. But look at these
views on this. Even from the Wall Street Journal, 1 .5 million, 3 .8.
There are nearly 4 ,000 ghost towns in the United States alone and many more doubted
around the world. There's a good chance that were. Does that one before? Okay.
So taking it home here, it's this. This is what you need to understand.
What we're trying to do is give YouTube a data point to understand the type of
viewer that we're looking for so that we actually go through the process of
discovery. Because every day as you're watching videos, the thing that I didn't do
was watching all the way through or part way through, whatever. I was skipping
around quite a bit. However, it was enough data point that YouTube was starting to
recommend things. What we're trying to do is find some consistency in the type of
content. So as you're well aware, we're starting to see things a little bit
differently based off of the search. But when we click on something, what I want
you to do is do two things. Number one, look for how many views to subscriber
ratio? So I'm going to come into this one right here. Okay. So low views, low
subscribers wouldn't fit it. But I want you to look at the side of it to see, oh,
look at the themes. We bought an abandoned Alaska homestead. Okay, that's interesting.
They bought an abandoned, you know, whatever. I explore this haunted mansion. Okay,
that might be interesting. But you're starting to see some similarities between the
titling and so on. And that's what we want. We want to have a really good
understanding what works based on what YouTube's recommending to us. So when we come
down to this, this is... There are nearly 4 ,000...
there's the opportunity to really start getting a good understanding of what's working
on YouTube by seeing what YouTube recommends us right here completely. So what I'd
like to do now, Justin, if we could just jump on and go through questions, I know
that we're going to have a session on Wednesday. So I want to break this up a
little bit differently because what we're going to do is have you all start your
recon and research account. I want everyone to set up an account, and I want you
to get granular with that before Wednesday, and then I want to be able to answer
questions of what you noticed and what you saw from it. So I want to give you
clarity on this. And then also on Wednesday, what we're going to do is I'm going
to give you some specific assignments to do here today and have it be ready for
Wednesday. So when we do the tasks on Wednesday, it's going to make more sense on
giving you ideas and then also have a deep understanding of who the viewer really
is.
Awesome. So if you are new to channel jumpstart, meaning this is your first time
going through it, you are open to ask questions. The best thing to do is I'm going
to be monitoring the chat, but also you can raise your hand and i'll go through
that order and i'll unmute you so you can ask the questions to darrell so again
this is focused on those that are going through channel jump start for the first
time so john speed you are up
hey darrell quick question um what should we do if so for your example with your
travel example you had like a very clear vision of where you wanted to be looking
for the niche. For my channel, I'm kind of like in between engineering and gaming.
So what I start broad with one of those, because they seem like they don't
necessarily overlap all the time. That's great. So let me do this.
And if it doesn't overlap all the time that me might be, you might need to
readjust your content strategy. Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and clear my watch
history real quick. This is how simple it is and check this out. We're going to
start fresh again. So you want to do gaming and engineering,
right? Yeah. Okay. So let me just go ahead and do that. Now, the question would be
is what type of engineering are you doing? Well, I'm trying to do like general
undergraduate STEM concepts to kind of teach through gaming.
kind of a central point, but it's not through gaming per se. But I would say it'd
have a similar audience, like the STEM audience, wouldn't you agree with that? Yeah,
I think so. I think the audience for Crunch Labs might be a little bit younger
than what I would like wish to necessarily have as my avatar. Yeah, but you got to
have a starting point. Regardless of what it is, you have to have a starting point.
Do you see how I refined it where i started to age up yep so you can do it
you'll you'll have a crossover you just have to make the right type of crossover
content right gotcha yep um so let me just do engineers for this is a flame so
you can see that it's very very young right but we got it we got to give it some
data point to start sure and when we do the data point to start um which is look
at that look how low that comment count to the like for a mark rover video that's
crazy and is that because of the age demographic they're just younger so they're not
yeah uh -huh they're not commenting okay
so now we have uh who'll get john milucky here you'd be happy for that and
we might have to do this a couple times um you know to find the right type of
audience and what type of video games would you be doing uh right now i'm in
Jurassic world evolution too okay yeah
i don't know
ex -Civil engineer who plays video games. He poses daily videos and they pull
hundreds of thousands of viewers. The thing with his videos that I don't necessarily
love, first of all,
the main thing is he markets himself as an engineer, but his channel isn't as
focused around storytelling and, like, actually conveying engineering concepts as It's
more marketing strategy. That's what we need to do then. Which one of these would
be close to what you would be doing? I actually recreated a video.
You see that fourth one? Can a Tesla valve stop a mega tsunami in city skylines? I
literally like took that type of idea. And if you go to my channel, it's like my
most popular video. Like I have like 5K subs and it did like over 200 ,000 because
they did something very similar. What we'd want to do, remember when I said you
want to start with search. Yeah. You don't want to start with search. What I want
you to do is start with this video. So I'm going to go ahead and show you the
difference between it. So let's go ahead and clear out my watch history.
Okay. And now let me just play the video real quick. Okay. Contributors to the
invention of electricity, sort of. So therefore, responsible for many modern -day
essential devices such as hair curlers, yeah, yeah, I mean, it's not, it's using
Legos instead of video games, but it's the same idea. No, but it's the same
concept. Yeah, yeah, different medium to teach a stem concept. That's great. Sorry,
I gotta give it a little bit more. Yeah,
okay, so I'm gonna go ahead and click this one i've
actually watched this video like this one would be the same thing right here
accurate nuke might be aged down a little bit but
all right let me see what we got here
that's pretty cool that's cool idea the the speed comparison one that's just for me
i thought it would be cool you got you okay tell me which one would be the one
that we want to click on um might
have to do a couple more videos yeah i'm looking uh I mean, if the particle
accelerator one actually teaches a concept, it could work, but I'm afraid that might
just be marketing. But keep in mind, it's all about marketing.
If you get the click, you can do whatever you want in the video. Sure, got you
brought as big as you want, but this is just the big as I've built it for today.
And look at that, look at that subscriber to view ratio. But yes, this is the new
particle accelerator 2 .0.
Look, no BS, no clickbait. Somebody's showing off Park Accelerator.
Hi, Physicist is here. Yeah, that's a great comment.
Those are the types of comments that I like to look for. Here's a funneled your
mind cart down into the middle and launches it off. Here's a hyperloop. yeah i was
just i was just looking at the side on that one that i've never seen okay i got
to click that one because there's many different ways of transportation boats mine
cards horses elitra pigs although they are not quite not a lot of comments on that
the idea it's not about finding out which one is the fastest for this video i we
got another chess plate again all right and that's putting us in the the Minecraft
rabbit hole it not necessarily no okay so back here i still have bricks oh okay
okay so on so you just have you have to figure out the medium of choice on it
but it doesn't matter if it's minecraft because if it works in one video game it
can work in another as long as you figure out what the value proposition is it's
more about figuring out what the value proposition is and then converting it with a
medium you got okay see how easy that was yeah yeah yeah thank you i mean you're
you're good to go man like like just start with that one video pretty much use
that other one that was really solid the um what was that the particle accelerator
one yeah yeah and that the one lego one with uh the different types of coupling
that was also good yeah yeah yeah okay there we go jason perry you are up and
then i'm going to go to a couple questions in the chat.
Hey, Darrell, how are you? Hey, Jason. How you know, man? Mine's pretty simple. I
just, when you're talking about when you're doing your recon and stuff and you're
saving the URLs, are you putting those just in a notepad or have you got a certain
system that you're using? What do you do with those URLs? Yes, so just keep them
in a notepad for now or put them in a Google sheet. That's all you need to do
for right now. What we want you to do is pretty much get some data points in the
videos that you like and you want to engage with and you're curious about going
deeper. For those individuals that are talking about Channel Jump Start prior what we
did, we don't want you to do that. Like, this is going to be a new system that
we're doing. So don't listen to anyone that's saying, hey, you can use this.
But Justin, if you wouldn't mind just getting that Google sheets together for it, I
think it would be great. Well, you know, just, just, just keep track of it, track
of the channels. It'll come in perfectly. Right now, I don't even use Google Sheets
anymore. I actually use the system and I'm going to show you on Wednesday. But, but
just keep, keep track of that and we'll be good to go. Sounds good. Appreciate it.
Thanks. Awesome. That will be coming out in email and on Discord as well.
We had a question. Oh, it moved. Where was it? It was Brian Flynn. What is a good
comment to view ratio?
Like I like to see at least 10%,
you know, 10 % of the views are equating into good comments.
But it's more about the length of the comments. So if they're really, really in
-depth comments, and then there's a thread. That's what I look for more than anything
else. We're going to show you a tool that's going to analyze a lot of this stuff
for you, so you don't need to worry about a lot of that. But what we need to do
is like have a good relationship, what we know, the type of content and the value
proposition and then the delivery style as well. Awesome. Nick Pro and then we're
going back to the chat, Sherry Hill. You'll be up next. I'm struggling with what to
search to. I'm already close to the top of the parkour niche. I merge a lot with
the topics like Spider -Man, Sonic Mario, but I also want to expand my reach,
reach a broader audience than just those niches. Yeah. Do you want to put Nick on
real quick? Yep.
Nick, you are up.
Hey, how's it going? Hey, Nick, you're in a different worry. So what I want you to
do is not search for parkour on your recon, because you're going to know everything.
You're going to see everything from it. What I want you to do is really going to
on the rabbit hole video games. And you could do GTA 5 and or other first person
runner type games type stuff. But you're going to need to kind of open your eyes
to other video types that would work.
So I would try to find a video game -ish and go down that rabbit hole.
And then there's a lot of people that try to recreate video games in real life.
That's what you're kind of doing, you know, in that regard. You know what I'm
saying? Or it's like parkour versus normal person or whatever. You've gone to that
vein. But we need to just get an ideations thing for you. You're just in a
different category because of how much content you posted online and your viewership.
But that's what I would look at is like, what is that X factor? Now, let me ask
you a question. It was a really important question. When I was going through the
recon and research, did you get any ideas of what to do for your channel based off
what I just did this morning?
I'm still not sure, because you search for travel, and I'm just not sure exactly
what I would search for, because of course, the word parkour just wouldn't cut it.
And of course, I would already know all the competitors there. So as much as the
algorithm of what, like, you did was, like, helpful. I still don't know exactly
where. So this is where I need to, this is where I need you to literally unlearn
what you've done, which is, Which is, you have a video idea. You know, you're,
like, let me just pull up your channel real quick. You have a video idea. You know
the style of video you're going to do, right? You already know the thumbnail, right?
And you're going to get this consistent amount of views, okay? Now, the difference
would be is, could you level up something, right? So maybe it's like looking for
hidden treasure, right? Whatever that is. And so that's kind of the story that
you're painting. and it's a competition.
cool locations that's like internet crack cocaine for the click because it just it
just looks so cool because it's unique or interesting places and so when we're
looking at it don't look at the activity you're doing in the video but it's more
the story of the video and and right now that's going to be something that you're
going to need to experiment because you got the the video game side You got the
real people versus, and then you have, you know, the stunts that are from a movie
or whatever. And then you're going to get a little bit more granular on, oh, what
if it was this? You know, and it could be around another topic. That's something
that we can experiment. But realistically, your content's good, but it's like could
it be environmental? And the environment is what I'm talking about could elevate the
content very dramatically. Okay. Yep. That's awesome. Thank you. All right. So you're,
I just want to make it be clear. Yours is different. You're going to go on video
games. You're going to do the re -conduct research on that side, just so that you
have some, some ideation, right? Yeah. Okay, perfect. Thank you.
There we go. Sheree Hill, you're up. Then Sam McDonald. Hi. So I think you may
have partially answered my question with the previous one, but I wanted to know if
it's okay when you're doing the research and recon to kind of look outside of your
niche. I'm trying to do something that you mentioned to us twice before, as a
matter of fact, and that is to move away from just the RV and looking at like
what you were doing with the travel channels is just giving me so many different
ideas. So I just wanted to know your take on that. Yeah, so the RV is a
Sam, you're up. Then Daniel.
Hey, Darrell, how's it going? Good. How you doing, Sam? Doing pretty good. So I
have a little bit of a weird situation. So I have short form content only. We only
do that. Now, we have a niche that's really small. So we have a water. Our app is
a water tournament where you have to physically eliminate somebody with water. And
we've had gameplay go viral of like action or somebody has a prom asking somebody
out for prom. They pull a water gun on them and then get them out. That's a big
deal. Now, we struggle with content because not only ideation because we don't have
anything to compare it to, but it's also like what kind of content do we create if
it's only us when it comes to gameplay? Like how do we like all of our viral
videos for the most part have been gameplay. So we don't know what to compare it
to. Our potential viewer and our core audience is all in high school, and that's
who we're trying to target, but we don't know how to go about it. Yeah. So have
you done anything with Airsoft videos? Personally, no,
we haven't done too much with Airsoft. No, no. Did you do any recon research with
Airsoft or Paintball? Oh, not much. Ah, then you need to do that. Like, if you're,
the only difference would be the delivery of the, the projectile, then you need to
go down that rabbit hole. So I would do paintball. I would do Airsoft, and, man,
there's some massive stuff on that. And I, no, please look for long form videos,
not short form. So. Okay. Okay. So what are you going to say?
I cut you What did you say? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the thing is, it's a game that,
like, it goes viral every spring. But the thing is, like, we're trying to make
videos ourselves, but it's like not really, it's kind of hard to explain. Sorry if
I'm butchering it. But basically, it's like 50 people who are in a game, 100 people
are in a game. And it's the gameplay itself that goes viral, the betrayal of like
a best friend getting somebody out with water. So it's hard for us to create
content because it's just me and my brother. And it's not like, you're missing the
point. Um, okay. What, what the point is, is you're trying to figure out what type
of content works and why. Not about the game. You're trying to, you're trying to
give understanding of the game, which is fine. But 100 person versus 100 person
videos like, it's, it's a trend. And it happens all the time. What you're going to
do is look at how can I create content, what type of content's out there based off
what's working on YouTube. And that's what we need to get. Like all we're trying to
do is get the idea that has viewers behind it. And then it's going to be creating
a consistent content strategy around it. And then please, for the love of everything
that's holy, don't focus in what you're selling yet. We need to look at the value
proposition of your content first. And you've done a great job of getting short form
videos. And then there's other videos that have popped off that was what they call
UGC, user -generated content. But if you're going to stay consistent, you're going to
have to have a theme. And that's what we're trying to get you, is that theme
around your content that you can actually put together and execute on.
And if it's all about getting people in a video that's really simple. We can get
to that point, it has to have the right idea with the right type of content
strategy. So I would look around more the option of, you know,
paintball, Airsoft, laser tag, really look at some cool things there.
And then we can figure out, you know, the type of content that would work with,
with the product that you're actually trying to integrate. Does that make sense? So
with that, yeah, so with that Should I shift my idea towards long -form content or
do I still focus? You always focus in on what you're currently doing right now.
What we want to do is get you long -form content as well, because, I mean, you got
short -form. But ideations, you can either choose to do it short or long. We got to
do that. I would prefer to do it long because there's money to be made in that.
And then, too, there's a lot of loyalty where the other one's kind of cool, a
little catchy, you know, but the higher engagement is through the long form. Yeah.
So for us, it's like monetization is on the app. Like so, I mean, we're, we're a
YouTube partner, but it's all on the back end. So if we get a mass amount of
volume, which is what we've tried to do throughout the whole season, is just get
everybody onto the app and interested in the gameplay itself, but that's what we've
struggled with. So if we get like 10 million views on a video, it could bring in
50 ,000 users or whatever it ends up being. But it's mainly just like a volume game
to convert them primarily just on the app is the end goal. Yep, cool.
Thank you so much. All right, man.
Okay, quick question from the chat. We've got from Ed Andrews. I know you answered
the first part of this, so it's more of the second part. What is a good comment
to view ratio that you're looking for. Yeah, like I said, 10 % is decent.
I'm looking for healthier replies to do more than that is just good. So like,
you know, we're trying to get as many comments. If it's one of those that surprises
you, yeah, we want to, we want to look in depth on that. So awesome.
Hey, Daniel, you're up, then Benzo.
Here we come. All right, gotcha. So can you hear me now? Yep. All right. So kind
of got a weird question. So we're confused as to like what people are searching for
that leads them to like our channel. I mean, like we want to think bigger than
just like disability or wheelchair or like right kind of figure out what or where
uh all this energy is so it's not about wheelchair it's about family um and and
there's a lot of family channels you just happen to be in a wheelchair um you know
so don't don't look at it that way per se um what you want to do is um is find
find unique places and unique situations that would be fun for your family and then
it's more about the story of but if I was to kind of nail what your content is
and I know I still owe you a call it. She's been a crazy week. We'll talk about
later. But it's more about, you know,
your perspective and how it's changed, how it got modified, how it was forced to be
change, right? And then, too, it's more about the outlook of the world in your
situation and you can still have happiness. You can still have joy. You can still,
you can still do things, right? And so it's more about that than it's about
anything else. You just happen to be in a wheelchair. That's it. So I think the
key to it is don't look at other channels that are around the wheelchair or and or
if they have any type of challenge. It's just more what would be interesting and
then two, what would be interesting for you to go engage with that. That's what
you're looking at. Gotcha. That's actually really helpful. Can you give me like an
example? Just something to search that would be, I guess, just family.
Sorry. I mean, like, what's one thing that your kids want to do. Probably travel,
go out fun, probably vacationing. Yeah. So kind of like family vacation type stuff,
you know, and it could be like, you know, taking your family to, whatever.
And it could also be something a little bit more challenging too, right?
It's like, like, and that's where it's interesting in your scenario. It's like doing
something that isn't necessarily normally that you think would be done in a
be able to will up to any of the any of the places but that doesn't mean you
can't get there um so it's just being oh maybe there's a creative way to get you
there will also you know kind of going from there that that could be an amazing
story you know so that's where that's where you have to be creative a little bit
and really look at the opportunities and go from there um and then yeah have you
have you have you uh do you know uh Zach is with Jerry Rick everything yeah i
know i know uh yes i know jack i just need to get in touch with him he's just
all right we'll connect uh because i think he'd be perfect for uh his non -profit
with his wheelchairs he's doing too that would be sweet yeah i promote a lot of
his stuff and talk about him all the time we just yeah i'll connect you okay cool
sweet sweet thank you hey benzo you're up then jacclin all
right All right. Hey, Benzo. You there? Yep. Hey, what's happening?
So at the last session of questions, I had asked a question that you said to bring
back once we started Section 3. Yep. It's basically about direction.
I'll read it just verbatim for what I had. Yep, for sure. My wife, for the
direction of my life is my daughter and being able to spend meaningful and memorable
time with her. With that being said, I have full custody.
So basically it's can I funnel all this into a single format like father -daughter
experiences or family or what?
Because I need help with the direction in narrowing it down. Let me kind of break
it down. So there's a couple veins that you can do, right? One is the family
dynamic and the kind of the ties that tie you together,
which is life and, and music, right? So you have your life that has compounded
things, but it's more about your love and passion for music. It could be really
cool on, you know, figuring out ways that tells the story kind of behind the scenes
of the music and how you come up with it, the whole thing. And then I would
probably do a separate channel that's just for the music proper. And the only reason
why is because it's just a little complicated when it comes to music of the people
that just want to hear the music versus the people want the story behind the music.
And you can't really put it on the same channel unless you have a strategy where
it's more short form content for, you know, kind of the audience development and the
long form for the music itself.
So I think it's just more I would probably steer you in the direction of the story
of you and your daughter just kind of bonding and around music and then inspiration
of and that way your storytelling can come out through your experiences in the
videos so that's what I would do for sure okay and then just one more thing on
that so some of the stories that I've had throughout my life as far as like for
example i drove off a cliff into a river one time when i was drunk and that
helped me realize that i should probably not drink anymore but that my daughter
wasn't around for that is it okay to kind of tie that into the stuff that my
daughter is associated with if you took if you took your daughter to the place that
you about died absolutely freaking that's a great story that's a great moment that's
a great video okay awesome sweet thank you yep a quick question
I'd have to look at it, but yeah, it's a,
YouTube also does advertise on videos at times,
but it could possibly be done. I don't know if you had a product or a service
that you're promoting in the video, but. There we go.
Next one, we got Jacqueline, then Heather.
Hi.
Hi. Hey, Jacqueline. Hi, I'm Zeke's mom. I'm here supporting him as a mother. He's
at school right now. I know he will like me to ask a question. I'm not a
YouTuber, but I'm doing it for my son. So here's the question. He'll definitely
watch the replay. So after hearing Nick pro response, Zeke is obviously not a big
channel like Nick, but could go to, but Could he,
like, go a route as NICD when it comes to, like, new potential viewers and active
viewers when it comes to abandoned places and weird locations for father and son,
basketball challenges? Any suggestions will be great with Zee's category when it comes
to his level with research and recon.
Yeah, so I would say basketball would be, you know,
basketball's interesting. There's several ways to do it. So it's about the shot, the
gameplay, where you're playing. You know, that's interesting.
But you have to look at, you have to look at why and what.
So if it's short form content, Then it's more about, you know,
more about finding a theme that would be replicatable.
Okay. And let me show you a video that I just saw just yesterday. It was just, it
kind of caught me off guard. Let me go from here. So this would be,
you know, more
of content if they're if they're looking to find something at unique places of
playing basketball could be considered the middle of nowhere well i think i found
what could be considered one of the most spectacular basketball courts in the world
and i'm not joking when i say the middle of nowhere this location is not in any
way connected to the outside world there are no roads leading into it the only way
that this can be accessed is by a 35 -mile boat ride from one of the marinas on
the lower side of the lake. It was originally built for the employees of a marina
that has since been abandoned by the National Park Service. But that's a story for
another video.
The experience of - All right. So, I mean, that's a unique place is for basketball,
right? So it's just basketball court in the middle of nowhere. But knowing and talk
to your kid, I would say, what gets him the most excited about basketball?
And that's the type of content I'd create is around that. And then I'd be looking
at it. So I don't know if he's inspired by Jesser or someone else like that. I
mean, that's the type of, like, if it's more experiential, then it's experiential,
right? But on this one, make sure that he gets this. So,
Zeke, this is for you. What gets you the most excited about basketball, what gets
you most excited about NBA. What I want you to do is think of that experience. And
then think of videos that work really well. So it could be trading up to get
tickets to go to an NBA game. That would be dope. If you like to watch NBA game,
it's more of the experience of getting you to the NBA game, right? And then, too,
it could be progressive because, you know, the cheap Steets at an NBA game can be
like 30 bucks or whatever, but the most expensive, you know, seats might be a lot
more. And it's like, well, can you trade? Can you work? Can you hustle to get the
money to go there? And then that's that payoff moment. And so don't, don't just
look at basketball. It's the basketball is more about the community. It's about, you
know, the impact. But when Jester started, he was just doing trick shots and he got
sick of them. And I made it very clear to him, you know, that it could be much
more than that if it's more around the culture of and the opportunity too.
And I think that's what you can do as well. And so just do a couple things of
what you like and what you want to do. And then you can kind of deep dive into
it of the type of content strategy you're looking to do. I'll have One more follow
-up question, if that's okay. Thank you. So that was awesome. So when,
for example, a lot of people like food, Enzi likes to do competition with his dad.
And we do, he does father and son competition, so it's not made for kids. And he
enjoys doing that. So he was researching and he saw eat it or wear it video it
was in a long form video and he wanted to incorporate that but it is so hard to
put it in a short and it was like oh it could be a long form video maybe but as
you mentioned don't focus on long form just focus on the viewers and for him right
now yeah I mean everybody else I'd probably push the long form but for him it I
think it's just something digestible that you can do it. So don't try to look at a
channel, like eat it or wear it as an opportunity. It's just more of an idea,
which is the setup. Like if, you know, we're going to play pig and whoever wins
has to eat this or they have to wear it, you know. You can set that up. That
could be easy done in a minute. Very easy. Yeah. So it's more of a There was a
simple short that jessor did was how many shirts can you wear until you can't make
make a shot and so he kept putting layers and layers of jerseys on until he
couldn't he couldn't make a basketball shot anymore so and that was a YouTube short
that blew up for him that's awesome yeah sweet that would be great thank you all
right Watch this. Awesome. Heather, you are up, and then I'm jumping to the chat
for Jessica and then to time served.
Hi, Darrell. Hi. I'm wondering how I figure out the whole concept of value
proposition. How do I see it? How do I know what we're giving out to the world?
I'm confused. Yeah, so we did a section on it for the intent of the viewer. So
that was in section two. If you want to go back through the intent,
that's just something.
high engagement count, low subscriber, that's kind of the videos. And if it kind of
speaks to you, too, like, oh, that's a really cool idea or what's the value in,
you can still question those things, but just keep track of those of those videos.
Just copy the URL and post it, and then we'll show you where to put it. Awesome.
Thanks. You're welcome. Okay. Question the chat. We've got from Jessica,
my channel is pregnancy and postpartum TV has ended up with a split audience because
I alternate between pregnancy workouts with postpartum workouts. In the last year,
I've had, I've really leaned into shorts around birth stories and sweet pregnancies,
newborn moments. This is sustaining my channel. My comments on my videos are
consistently that I helped create positive birth experiences for moms. I want to add
a new bucket for all new moms. what do you think about entertainment for this
audience?
Yeah, I think it's down to a couple of things. I think it's just more trying to
figure out the commonalities between your viewer and realize that if you're doing
pregnancy,
that you have a run rate, that they would be more engaged. And So is that what
we're trying to do is just like giving support for someone that just found out that
they're pregnant all the way to birth and then even after birth when they're trying
to lose some pounds on that? I think it's fine. But I do believe at different
stages of where they're at, they might view and find value differently. And it could
be where you have just a small active audience during the time that is critical for
them, you know, which is, hey, I'm pregnant and I want to stay healthy. And so I
would probably do another channel for just, you know,
anything that doesn't deal with pregnancy. I say if it's pregnancy, I would say,
let's really gear to that. And then everything's around that. And then the other
channel could be a way that they could still stay connected to um um um
All right. So when we're searching, a lot of the results are coming back as
documentaries or like literally the news, like CNN or ABC. Perfect. So we're
filtering through all of those. It's a little bit tricky. And then when we do
actually find like a YouTuber that's not the news or a video that matches high
views, high engagement, low sub count,
at first glance, like their avatar is completely different than ours. Does that
matter? So what you need to do is there's the reason why we want to open this up
because there's just a lot of variables when it comes to the type of content you're
creating. Okay. So yours is more of the story, the story behind and the implications
of and then the conversations. But it's to inspire people,
you know, of, hey, just because you've served time, doesn't mean that,
you know, your life's over. It's more about navigating your future. And so it's
those types of conversations. So what I would probably do differently is don't
disregard the news at all. Okay. What we want to do is what's uniquely
been presented And then how do you bring it in relevant conversations? And yours is
more about relevant conversations to the now. But there's like a video that was
really funny that I watched probably three years ago. See, I remember these weird
videos three years ago or whatever. But this guy served his time and he was just
getting out. And then the people that were greeting him just as he was getting out
of jail were just police officers. And he just got pranged because he's like,
he thought he was going to be.
how it is from the law enforcement side of getting out, how it is from the, you
know, the inmate side of getting out. You know, those first moments, what do you
dream about? What's that first thing that you want to do, right? And that would be
the conversation. So please use recon and research as discussion points, but also
that you can learn how to, how to title things, right, and how to bring it into
your conversation. Okay. Okay.
Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. There we go. Every Day, Chris, you are up,
and then James, aka Stepdad.
Oh, sorry. Let me. Is it me or you? Oh, it's me? No, it's everyday, Chris. Hello.
There you go. Yo, what's going on, man? Thank you so much. I'm so happy. I learned
so much. I'm learning so much from you. I really appreciate everything you're doing.
My question is, so my channel audience seems to love like the Tesla content and
learning and all that stuff. So when I was doing my recount and research, the other
channels in my niche, they all kind of do like similar style videos. Am I trying
to look at those people's videos and kind of emulate what works for them and
recreate that into something that's kind of unique to me? Or am I trying to set
myself apart and do something a little bit different. Yeah, that's a great question.
So it depends, Chris. It depends on what your goal is. I would say,
let's try to be unique without without being so distinct that you're not seeing the
value of what's being done. And if we were to kind of break down your audience,
who would you say your audience is? What do they want to learn from you? What do
they want to experience from you? What's the value problem? Well, they're kind of in
the 30s to 50 range and they kind of, they're interested in a Tesla or they have
a Tesla. They're trying to figure out how to use it, all the settings and the
features. Can I take it on a road trip, that range anxiety? And they kind of come
to me to kind of satisfy that like, oh, I can do this or it's possible or it's,
oh, it's actually something that I'm interested in a car that actually want to
purchase in the future. Yep. Yep. So what I would say would be there's difference
between a first time Tesla owner that's just trying to figure things out. I believe
Justin found your video very helpful the other day. Was that true, Justin?
100%. So he got a Tesla. What did you get it last year or whatever? Yeah, I got
it last year. Yeah, so last year. So he's, you know, he's trying to do it. So I
think it's just more, what's the capability of where technology is going when it
comes to EV? And maybe the bulk of your content is Tesla per se,
but don't, don't discount all the EV stuff. There's some interesting stuff going on
that you can do it compare and contrast to. It's like, hey, where's things going,
how it's going to evolve? But yeah, I'd probably be a little bit different,
figure out a way to be a little bit different when it comes to your type of
content. Because if it's just how -to stuff,
you want loyalty. And loyalty will come through storytelling. And so you want that
storytelling component, but you still want to do the small little details that people
would would find valuable in the how -to. It's cool that you mentioned that because
I'm actually working on making it more of a story. And I think whenever people come
up to me, the thing they love about me is the personality and the enthusiasm and
how it makes them want to, like, whenever they watch the video, they feel like
they're there. So I'm really trying to focus it more on storytelling, but still
being informative. Yep. Yep. That's great. That's great. Thank you. And I'll just say
this. In the words of Daryl, I definitely drink the Kool -Aid on Teslas because they
are amazing. Oh, my goodness. It's awesome. Okay. James,
you are up. And then Latoya.
Hey, Daryl. Quick question. Just want to make sure I'm understanding. We create a
new YouTube channel. It doesn't matter if it's incognito mode or anything like that,
I'm assuming. Yep. And then we search as our perspective viewer for stuff they would
search for. That's correct. And we just start with one video. Then we don't
necessarily need to search again. We just need to click on videos. Okay. Start
refining based on those demographics. Okay, perfect. Thank you. Yep.
Okay, Latoya, you are up. And then RJ.
Hi. Hi there.
Wow. Okay. So I am quite confused. I am one of those newer channels that kind of
blew up like you spoke about one of the previous calls. Like blew up right out the
gate. And so kind of followed the views, I guess,
on the, you know, like seven is half a million views. But I kind of don't really
know where I'm headed, but I did refine my potential viewer and she is a millennium
female who have difficulty building and maintaining social relationships.
So my current videos are flopping and I'm kind of trying to figure out,
well, I think my value prop is inspiration, motivation, community in connection and I
am in mental health. So you also said mental health tends to do well with escapism.
So what would some of my initial search options be, sorry, on the new channel?
Let's do this. Let's have Justin take a look at your channel and give you some
recommendations at your start point. Does that sound good? Okay, great. Thank you.
Perfect. That's great. Latoy, hit me up on Discord, and we'll schedule a time. Okay,
perfect. Okay, RJ, you're up, then Tyler on deck.
Hey, Darrell.
So my question to you is, since I'm in the kid's space, how, the way you were
doing all of the searches and whatnot, how do I, since I don't have any comments
and whatnot, am I going based off on engagements, based on likes and obviously the
views versus and the subscribes? I'm kind of basing off of that.
Like, how do you proceed to that? Yeah, you're more of this engagement right here.
See how it kind of has the engagement in the video? Yeah. You see where it spikes.
That's what you can do. Just look for that and views. And you can see where in
the video that they found valuable based off of where it has the bigger spikes.
Okay. And because my content is very, like,
the way I've had it is like because it's very character -driven and it's based on
his adventures going, you know, on all these different adventures. But like,
but the music is a huge component for what i'm doing so um does that imply like
does that make things a bit more complicated because like dany go i've used dany go
as like my core risk like my core um kind of look up to based on but i'm pretty
sure there's other channels like dany go that are there but like how would i go
about that should i just focus on him or should i try to look for uh subscribers
that are close to my end and trying to look i i would not do a mainstream uh
Hey, Darrell.
So I think I'm starting to understand it. When you're doing recon, you're just
trying to find a direction that has low subs, high views, and comments,
and look for those common threads.
But I thought I was interesting what you said with, I can't remember his name at
the moment, but he was doing engineering and gaming. Yep. And then with also the
splash guys, when you, you find what works in match your mediums. So if I'm doing
like pottery, if I've found some videos that do really well where it's people like
cooking outdoors with a beautiful view and it's more ASMR,
should I keep kind of diving into those types of videos or is that how you kind
of like find where to go and end up so I would say there's a couple routes right
and and one of it would be ASMR could work but it's just more is it the story is
Is it the dialogue behind? Is it the location? You know,
my thing would be is you got to figure out that first. So if it's story,
then it's like, oh, you can do voiceover as you're, you know, this serene location,
right? If it's not story and it's just more about the serene location, then it's
just the sounds and being there as you do something as you create something, right?
Right.
feel like? And that kind of aligns with my vision. If that's, if that's what it
is, then you need to create the story around it. So like you're creating,
you're creating some pottery, you know, for a purpose.
And so if you figure out what the purpose is and you start telling that story,
then what you do is find the location. So part of it is getting to there, getting
set up as you're telling the story. And I see a lot of VO with this, where you're
just kind of telling the story as you're creating. And then you do it. And it
takes it all the way to that moment. And if you want to put it in the canel,
it's fine. And then give it away to that person, that could be the end of the
video. So we can get into the video content that way. But you're going to need to
make a choice on what you're going to do. Is it going to be how -to? Is it more
ASMR? Is it more story? You know, I think that's what you need to look at. And
the bigger ones is ASMR, and it's more about the satisfaction of the completed
project than it is seeing something from Clay into the completed project versus the
sounds.
Okay, cool. That helps. Okay, sweet. Thanks.
There we go. Malcolm, you're up. Then the Adventure Cruise.
Yep, let's go to Adventure Cruise. Okay, Adventure Cruise. You are up,
And then we'll wrap up with Daniel. Hey, Daryl, can you hear me? Yep, sure you
can. Good deal. Thanks so much, man. Hey, so you've been doing this for a long
time, obviously. Whenever you look at these channels, you're so quick to say, oh, I
can tell this is younger audience. When I'm looking at other travel channels, how do
I know what their audience is? Or who's on? Based on the comments that they're
leaving, if it's a full -on discourse a little bit older than just emojis and small
texts.
you know. Yeah, sure. So as we're doing this research, you know, for us, I know
you're saying don't go mainstream, which totally good. But when we do think
mainstream, we're very focused on like Kara and Nate's style content.
And I'm going to, I'm going to have you get away from it a little bit. Because I
want you to create content like you and your wife. Like I want it to be that. I
understand there's certain styles of it. yep but if you really go look at what was
your number one video in the last two months it's insane it's a train video that
we just did exactly so that's what we're going to do we're going to leverage and
try to understand that right like when you when you really when you really look at
it because it's like if you can understand it's not about sailing it's not about
whatever and you really break it down um we're going to get to the essence of what
that core is and then and then breaking into it. So like if I was doing that on
your content, if I was doing exactly what we're doing here, which I don't want you
to do. I want you to do it on somebody else's content, not yours. But it's just
like when you really break it down, high views, low subscribers, decent comments
based off of the views, right? But then it's just like, what's the value in here.
And right now, it's like really looking at if there's ever a place that that sucks
at trains, it's the United States. Like, you go to Europe. Okay, great. I'm a
European. I can't understand the comments and believe the prices, right? Because it's
like so cheap in Europe to go there, you know, but yet, whatever. You know, and so
when you're really breaking it down, it's more that. And then, And then you've got
to realize it's more, I mean, it is what your channel is, which is the adventure,
right? You're going for the adventure. And then, too, you're going to find certain
adventures that are, you're able to replicate. And let me, I was doing some prep
work before.
And this would be good for you to have. Let me pull
you're looking for that. I was going to say, I don't, I don't, I feel like we
sound like a broken record at times, but we really don't want it to be about
sailing. We want the sailing just to be, as you were saying to the RV people
earlier, like, we just want the sailboat to get us to where we're going and that
be, you know, the destination be more of our focus. Yeah. So,
here's one that I found the other day.
So it's like solo travel type stuff and it's just like interesting, interesting
locations, interesting places, whatever.
And this one was interesting. So I found this like I'm getting into like these
vending machines. I saw a vending machine in Switzerland where they made French
fries. And I'm like, okay, this is really cool. So I've been down a vending machine
rabbit hole for a while. And that's how I found this one. But it's more about that
experience and the connection to. And when you really break it down, you see this
one has 31 million video views, writing Japan's first class overnight train.
So it's more of that experiential. So what I would do if it was me when it comes
to your content is give it a starting point where If you look at the themes of
the last couple of videos that have performed really well, your train videos won,
okay, what's another train adventure that you can go on? And that's kind of what
you would want to lean into and try to figure out, hey, it's an experience that's
different. You know, you're not jumping on a plane. You know, okay, that's great.
It's more of that experience over time. Yeah, unique experiences. Yep. Okay.
And Where would you start that search from that aspect, I guess?
Probably a train video. That's probably what I would do. Okay. Just try to find
that and then just kind of branch out besides train. So it's giving you some other
blended data. Awesome. Thank you so much. Yep. There we go.
Daniel, you are up. Hey, Darrell. On the which my question is,
do I hit my core or my potential? Because, you know, my channel is super niche
right now with pilots. But I'd like to, I don't think I can get to my goal by
just sticking with that. So I wanted to expand that audience to more like even
aviation enthusiasts or aviation enthusiasts is what you got to do. You have to.
Yeah.
Which then will lead me to a question that at some point, well, I need to create
a second channel and have one for pilots and then one for aviation enthusiasts.
Aviation enthusiasts dream about being pilots. Like, you just got to, you got to
understand that. Like, and maybe there's situations not to be there, but they're
going to want to nerd out. It just depends on how nerdy you get with it will lead
to it. But if you, if you're looking for the potential viewer would be,
you know, aviation enthusiast for sure. Okay. All right.
That answers my question for now. Thanks. Okay. So, Justin, I want to end on this.
I want to make sure it's really, really clear.
This is really important, guys. We're taking our time on Section 3. Right now,
I wanted to do a live training with you. So your assignment. Justin's going to
follow up with this in an email, which is you've got to do recon and research by
creating a brand new YouTube account. You've got to give it a data point, which is
something in search or a video to view. And then I want you to try to refine that
viewer to make sure that you're getting content that you would want to create.
And so you're getting ideas from it. Now, a few of you, you're going to take a
little bit of time, but this is something, this is an exercise that we're going to
do every, you know, several times a week to keep on refining and seeing what
YouTube's recommending to us. And then on Wednesday, what we're going to do is take
these results. So you're going to find videos. You're going to say, hey, this is
interesting. I'd like it. I want more data. It has something that we're looking for,
which is high viewership, low subscriber, A lot of comment engagements,
and I say, hey, this is interesting. We're going to save the URL for those videos
and put it on a sheet, and Justin's going to provide that sheet. And then on
Wednesday, we're going to take all these results, put it into a tool that's built
on AI, and we're going to help you really understand the viewers and also the
opportunities to create content. That's what we're going to come in, and then we'll
have some other things that's there. So Heather, you left a comment about, does
Section 3 unlock? well, no, what you're going to get is this.
and we're going to go a lot more in depth. So if you all take that assignment and
you have data to show us on Wednesday, I'll be able to answer very specific
questions for you. I think it was put best that I've been doing this forever and
it's easy for me to see it. It is. So the more that you have data showing me,
the more I can give you direction of what you're looking for. So brand new YouTube
account, create give it a data set, either a video or something in search, start
refining it and say, oh, here's some really interesting videos and put those
interesting videos, put them aside, the ones that you think that you'd want to
create or something around that vein. And then ultimately, it's going to give you a
long list. All we need the URLs, and on Wednesday, we're going to show you what to
do with those URLs. Okay, guys, thank you so much, and we'll see you on the next
one. Thanks, everybody.

PT 2

Hey, hey, everybody. Welcome to channel jumpstart with our Section 3, group coaching
since Monday's Recon and Research. Just a heads up, I'm going to make this really
quick because we want to get into your questions and jump into that. I'm going to
bring on a guest,
and then they're going to make a special announcement. But heads up, we've got the
Section 3 Q &A today. And then from there, don't forget, we're going to have more
training, more information is going to come on this one as we analyze and adjust
and help you out. Now, also here in the United States, for most of the United
States, come Saturday is the time clock change. What that means is we're falling
back an hour. So right now, it's 10 a .m. Mountain Time.
Come next week, let's say, for instance, you live in Arizona, Hawaii, or someplace
where your clocks do not change, that means it's going to be an hour earlier or
fallback. So an hour later for you. But an email is coming out on Friday. It's
going to have that time thing that you can check. Highly recommend to double check
for next week because hours are shifting across the place.
Okay? So everybody, remember that. And So you're telling me I get an extra hour of
sleep now? No. No, you don't. You've got a brand new baby.
I do. Check it out. Look at him. What? Oh, my. I brought him in.
I brought him in. Jet. Little Jet Jackson. Yes, little Jet Jackson.
He is going to be the next apprentice. Here, hold them up. Hold them up.
I got to do a screenshot here. Okay, okay, okay. I'll hold them up again. He's got
more hair than I do already. Yeah, he's a hairy baby. He gets it from his mom. I
love it. I was born ball. So, so cute. He's a sleeper, it looks like. Yeah, he
sleeps pretty good. Other than last night, I was up with him for three hours just
because he eats and eats and eats. Like, he's probably going to be 15 pounds by
next week with the amount of Yeah, yeah, that's good. That's good. I'm excited
though. I will be honest. I have been thinking about this probably more than I
should have because of the baby because I just with two kids now, I don't know
what hit me in it. I just had this realization of holy crap. I need these people
to win because my kids are going to grow up and they're going to start watching
YouTube and I need there to be light out there. I cannot have my kids be watching
garbage. And so having this kid, I know I'm supposed to take time off and just
really focus on him. But it's actually made me more motivated because I need
everyone here to win. I do. I can't afford to have my kids be watching garbage out
there. Oh, it gets me so excited, though. I love it. Awesome,
man. That's awesome. That's awesome. Hey, like, don't feel obligated to be here,
Dave. Like, you need to make sure that you're done. I'll probably hop off because
he needs to eat, but I just wanted to make an appearance, and I'll probably listen
in. Okay. All right. I love you all. And then Justin, I actually,
we'll do Q &A at the end. I got a lot to go over. Like, there's a lot of
training I still need to do. And then was, Fernando is joining us, right?
I thought it was going to be on the other one. So I'm going to hit him up there
right now. No, no, that's fine. That's fine. That's great. So perfect. So let me,
do you have any other last housekeeping stuff? Can I, when can I jump in? You can
jump in right now. I'm just going to see, I'm going to hit Fernando up right now.
And if you can join. Yeah, just the tell end of it would be great. Okay. So, all
right. So first off,
like really excited for multiple things. Monday's call was great. Like I said,
we're We're trying to navigate how best to approach this based on your questions. So
the more feedback you can give us, more questions that you have, the better. But
before we get into the questions, I just want to be clear on what we're trying to
do. And then, too, kind of break it down in a digestible way of a clear action
plan. And so let me share my screen real quick. And I want to go over content
relationships and buckets. And this is just something, really something that you
should always consider. And it's not to deal with what you think.
And I want to break this down, because this is one of the most confusing things
for a lot of content creators. They think that that relationship of content doesn't
work. But I want to start off by just showing a YouTube channel, and I want you
to help me understand. So I'm going to go to my recon and research account, and
I'm going to go on to YouTube real quick, and I'm going to just type in a
creator. So if you guys, if you guys just in comments or chat real quick,
if you can put down a creator that's inspired you or, you know, had you see
differently on YouTube, I'm going to go through some of their content just so that
you can see what we're actually talking about. Okay. So go ahead and put that in
there. I'd prefer that they're YouTubers because like if they're more mainstream
television, then it doesn't really do anything. So if it's like YouTubers, that would
be fantastic. Okay, so we That's some great, great things.
I don't know about my name being there, but I got a post -content, whatever. But,
okay, there's some perfect, perfect examples of it. So I'm going to do one that's
not on here. And I'm going to do a search, and then I'm going to go into this
very specifically, right? So just Casey Nystatt, OG, you know,
people like his stuff. And you can see right here, you know, he's been around and
he'll come and go as he does. But I want to show you what I'm talking about.
Okay. If you look at this video, eight years ago, it has 79 million views.
And when I when I look at content and content coming from a creator, I'm trying to
find a pattern of predictability, right? So this actually is one of those flags that
has a whole bunch of views, and he has high subscriber count. Maybe I wouldn't
consider it, but it's a starting point to look at where are the views coming from
and having a good understanding. So it says the $21 ,000 first class airplane seat.
So luxury travel eight years ago. Okay, that's great. So I'm going to come to his
channel here, I'm going to go to his videos, and this is where I want you to all
see. Like, if you were to say who Casey nice dad is off of this,
you would say, like, he's just kind of capturing what he wants, and, you know, he's
just telling a great story. For me, I go like this, and he's pretty much where you
take all his views and you put him in a group, the biggest views came from one
bucket, okay, which is the niche of travel, not just travel,
but just first class travel, right? Incredible first class travel. You have 79
million views here, okay? You have 55 million views here. I like this thumbnail
because Jimmy, Mr. Beast and I help him. It was actually a Mr. Beast thumbnail that
we found out Casey was doing the video at the same time so we just gave it to
Casey. But, um,
is that? And that's where I want to kind of show you why. And then we'll go back
to other creators. And I'm going to literally break it down for you. It's not
rocket science here. Because once you start understanding the patterns and the
relationship of content, then it's really it's easier for you to predict what people
would watch, right? And what they engage with? So for me, it's about that more than
anything else. I'm trying to figure out who's watching and why. I'm taking it
through YouTube's two goals, right, which is predict what the viewer wants to watch.
So I'm looking for those prediction types, right? And there's a high probability
where Casey, if he does tomorrow, does a luxury travel video, it will get the most
views. It'll be one out of 10. It'll be the best thing. Why? Because he actually
has data. And then also you need to understand how YouTube works, okay? So YouTube's
concerned about the viewer, and it doesn't push videos for creators, it pulls video
for viewers. However, I'm going to do a strong, however, when the content creator
knows that, that it's all around the video topic, the video niche,
and is predictable for that, then YouTube actually does the creator more advancement
than any other thing, which is,
similar videos. So if they watched your video, okay, any on any video on your
channel, they might see it. But if it's a relationship video, like, so let's use
Casey as an example, which is, you know, they just watched something that was
expensive travel and they watched the whole thing through it and they watched another
video, it's going to be blurringly obvious for them that, hey, this viewer actually
likes this type of content. Let's put it in front of them. Okay. And then two,
it's going to test for the new viewer on browse and suggested video. So every video
that he's created on luxury first class travel, this video will show up. You'll see
the new tag. It'll be on suggested and similar videos. That's what happens on
uploads. And what it's looking for is how many people are going to click and watch,
okay? And they'll even notify some viewers. They don't notify it everyone, but they
notify some. Which some do they do? The most active viewers, they'll notify. The
most active viewers that will click on a notification, they'll notify. Okay.
So the whole reason why this happens is they're looking for this, a hit rate. And
what a hit rate is, is how many people see it and how many people click on it?
That's a hit rate. Now, you might say that's CTR, But no, that's the success rate
of what it's doing. And they're looking off of impression -based and going very
specifically on that. So when that happens, the best thing you can do is have what
we call a content bucket, which is similar themes, similar topics, similar titles,
similar framework. Why? Because that helps with the predictability of the algorithm.
I'm here to tell you, there's 100 percent of the time. I can prove this over and
over and over again that if you're going to grow on YouTube, you cannot be a one
-hit wonder. You have to replicate. You have to replicate what you're creating in
content. I don't care if it's in shorts. I don't care if it's in long form. That
is your content strategy. And that's what we're trying to do is look for these
patterns of the predictability. Now, what I want to do right now is break down this
where you can see it. And I'm going to take some questions here, but let me go in
because we had, I mean, people have put a lot of my students down here,
and it's great. But let me go ahead and put one in. Let's just do, let me share
my screen real quick. Let me just do a couple, just so you can see what we're
talking about here, okay? First one is Ryan Trahan. So somebody did the Ryan Trahan.
Great example, okay? And what we're going to look for is patterns of predictability,
okay? So here is a bucket that he's done. I spent 100 days in blank.
I spent 100 days in the Metaverse. I spent 100 days in realistic Minecraft. You see
where that's going?
You know, 24 -hour challenges is great. But it's also, you know,
I tried every seat on the most expensive airlines. So he's getting into the airline
stuff, right? Or I survived, fill in the blank. I survived the sensory deprivation.
I survived the world's loudest room. You know, I survived 50 hours in 2D,
okay? I built, fill in the blank. So these are very powerful ways, and you can
start seeing the patterns of it. Now, guaranteed, I click on any video, I kick on
any video and look at what it is. YouTube actually has to promote rabbit hole
videos, right? Which is, I tested one -star hotels. I tested one -star hotels again.
I tested one -star restaurants. I stayed at luxury. So it's like, oh, maybe it's not
here. Maybe it's there. Okay. I survived on one penny. That's great. You know what
I'm saying? And that is the whole thing that we're talking about here is this is
the relationship content. This is why we're looking for very, very specific patterns.
Okay. Let's do another one.
Let's do Let's do...
Hit in here. I mean, I can show any of my students like Kope's Skoop. I know that
that was there again. Let's do another one. They shouted out. I know,
but they're all students of mine. Just fun. What's that? It's just fun.
All right, All right, we'll just show students.
But once again, you know, you can do it. I bet, you know, I beat clash cans in
an hour. Okay, great, right? And then there's a lot of things. I left my base
inactive for 100 days. Good, great. That's kind of a replicatable thing that you're
able to do. You know, hope, scope, same thing. You know, like she has her buckets,
you know, and, you know, oh, my offline? There we go.
Okay, so she has her buckets. You know, I bought vintage versus new beauty products.
So she does that. That was a really cool thumbnail, I thought. But I test
unrealistic things or, you know, reviewing TikTok products. I mean, you can see it
right here. Once you start pulling it together, you're able to see that over and
over and over again. I bought discontinued products from our childhood. I bought
every Barbie dream house, you know, that whole thing, you know, bought everything,
truckloads, that all that thing. That's a really great example. But I want to do
one that's not my student because like, like, we can do this every day, but I can
do it to anyone that's successful on YouTube and I can prove that there is a
pattern of predictability on it. So what was the next one? Go with Max Fosh. Okay.
Because I love his content. You like his stuff. You always bring it up. You're
like, hey, Max Fosh, did this. I'm like, whatever. Okay. So if you're not familiar
with him, really great YouTuber. What he does is take something viral that's
happening, trending, and then he does it. This is probably one of the funnier videos
that he made tourists think that the landing in the wrong airport, you know. But,
like, you see, I paid, I became, I hired, I became, I broke,
you know, I broke, you know, that's the whole thing. And you're thinking, oh, it's
just one word. Well, no, it's this style of video that's creating, right? It's like,
you know, I became the world's richest man for seven minutes. Okay, what does that
look like, right? What is it going to do? I paid a private investigator follow me
for a month, okay? But it's like I paid someone to do something and you're going
to pull it into this. But when you go on it, like it doesn't matter what any
video that it is, you can go on it, you can start seeing that, that it's going to
go deeper down the rabbit hole. I paid private investigator to follow me for a
month. I paid two private investigators to follow me for a month. This is where the
rubber meets the road. Let's do gamer um let me just do dream because like like
he'll come and go and whatever but he's he's probably he milks it probably the most
oh i'll be honest with you because like he's done a series of videos and what he
does is does it around certain keywords where it's like hey we'll do um let me let
me let me do the Minecraft uh Let me, Speed Runner versus Three Hunters.
Let me just do The Three Hunters real quick. And you can see this whole thing. So
this one is Minecraft Speed Runner versus Three Hunters.
So he'll play a speed run. He'll play it against three hunters. And then it's
looking at, okay, the next one is three Minecraft speedrunners versus hunters for Mr.
Beast. Well, When you go into when this video was done, believe it or not, he
gives a little breathing room so he does another bucket and then he comes in and
does it again. So he'll do a rematch and you'll always see that rematch. So you
see the rematch right here. So this one has 67 million views. This one has 76
million views. This is the actual next one and then the Mr. Beast one's there. So
it's like, okay, Minecraft's Speed Runner versus Hunter's rematch, okay? He hits that,
right? And then all it's going to do is go down that rabbit hole where it's like,
okay, we got finale and then we have grand finale. Like, he gets like five videos
out of it. And so when you really break this down, this can happen over and over
and over again. I don't care what creator it is because there's like the type of
content that you're consuming on YouTube And this content that you're consuming, you
might not see the patterns, but I want you to start seeing the patterns, which is,
what is the relationship of that data? And the reason why is because when you have
similar relationships, okay, of data, and that means, hey, you have a format that
proven to be true, well, let's kind of lean into it. Let's kind of go a little
bit deeper into it. That is a content bucket, right? So I bought everything in a
store in fill in the blank store like I bought everything in the Walmart in a
store whatever that is like you can you can do all that the fill in the blank is
that little variable of change but the video is pretty much the same over and over
and over again and it's more about that storytelling and reaction and then that's
that excitement but what youtube's looking to do is like anytime you released a
video on that that topic YouTube's going to go release other videos or show other
videos that you have in your library as a content creator. So like when you release
it, you're going to see your views go way up on your other videos too because of
that relationship. That's what YouTube does. And so this right here is, has nothing
to do with playlist. Playlists don't mean nothing anymore. Okay. That's like a 2013,
8 to 18 type play. We're not even in that world anymore. What it is is a format
of content. Think of it as a series. Okay, I'm doing a series around the penny.
You know, what can I, how can I can, you know, how, what I can buy for a penny,
right? The penny series for Ryan Tran. That's what a content bucket is is a series
that you can hit over and over and over again. But you don't need to do it where,
oh, part one, part two, part three, part four. No, they're all independent videos
that's going into it. Okay, does this make sense? If it does put it in the
comment, we just need you to understand this because this is the type of patterns
that I want you to do. Daryl, we're getting a lot of good ones, but here's a good
question, I think, would it be really helpful for some people? So Daniel asked, but
what if your content is trending and not Evergreen, like breaking news? Yeah,
don't, let's let me, let me stay on this top to hold that one for the end of it.
So a poll on Nick Pro because I need to clarify something for him.
And I gave him an idea, but I don't know if he translated that idea. So Nick, are
you there, man?
Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. So Justin mentioned that like,
oh, you know, I don't want to do gaming content. And so that you had that
discussion, he would probably discuss this with you, but I need to be clear, what
we're trying to do is understand the relationship of content. It's not what's to be
delivered in that content. And so when I say, go down a lateral,
you know, some type of content that it would be familiar with could be, you know,
survival mode in Roblox. So it could be, you know, speed runners in a specific
game. You're looking at the relationship I'm going to be.
agents or stuff like that. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. That is what I'm saying
is, do you know where that trend came from?
No, I have no idea. It came from me telling them to look at video games.
Yeah, no, I totally understood what you, the message that you like relate to Justin
and I looked into some ideas from, like, Roblox,
Minecraft, and stuff that I could potentially... It's not Roblox in real life. It's
not Minecraft in real life. But the mechanics of the title, what was appealing to
it, and then to the content itself.
So there's like just just a position type stuff. And the reason why I brought Nick
on isn't because he has 25 million subscribers, but it's like, you all can learn
this. Like, Nick has done it kind of, but he's like thinking, oh, it's title
thumbnail and that's what it is. I'm saying it, no, it's format too. So it's like
there's other formats that could be exploratory. We want to experiment what that is.
If not, you're going to just top out. You're going to plateau. To take it to the
next level, you always need to be creating that next format. that's what the bucket
is right now. So, great. So yeah, that's great. Yeah. Okay,
super excited on that one, man. Great. Thank you. Fernando's on the call, too.
Perfect. Perfect. Okay, so, so guys, what the reason, the reason why we're going
through this is when we're doing recon and research, we're looking for patterns. What
I want to do is look at high view count, low subscriber count, high engagement,
okay? Showed you how to do that on Monday. The second thing I want you to look
for is if you go to a channel, I want you to see, is there other similar videos
like this? Okay. If so, are they performing? Okay, or is this the first one that
goes? You know, there might be another indicator from there. The reason why people
don't succeed on YouTube is they don't know what they have. Okay,
they don't. They just say, oh, yeah, this video popped off.
anything.
He was probably my best example of adoption. Like he adopted it so freaking quick,
like so quick, which is great. And what I love about it is when you really break
this down,
you literally look at patterns, right? So Dollar amounts is a keyword that will
recommend. So you'll see the same dollar amounts. It's not going to be a weird
dollar amount. It's going to always be the same. And then it's also always going to
progress. So it's going to start at a level and go higher, right? But you can see
that 50 YouTubers fight for $1 million, right? Or I built 100 houses. Well, the
reason why I didn't build 90 houses is because 100 is that key word that we want
to. I built 100, okay, or I bought 100 or I bought 10. So we're very predictable
in that pattern. But if you go and look at the most popular, you know, this is
the only one that did not hit the same vein as us. But $456 ,000 was in line with
pop culture in that show. Okay, it was just kind of one of those things that took
off. But you can see this is a bucket. Last to leave circle wins, fill in the
blank. Last leaves wins, you know, an iPad, then $1 ,000, $10 ,000, $100 ,000,
$500, $1 to $100, $1 to $100. One versus whatever.
We're getting that all over again, okay? You can see that, you can see that it's a
progression because that way, It was a really cool video, but now he's going for
bigger prizes. I'm going to see it again, and I actually liked it. But you can
see, there it is. I spent 50 hours buried alive. You know, this is one of my
favorite ones. Press this button and win $100 ,000. It's like a really random thing.
And then, you know, I survived surviving 100 days. You know, it's just literally one
big bucket fest. And that's all it is. It's like, find a vein,
find a bucket. if it proves out, then we
it up because all these other videos that YouTube would be recommending, you know,
that content could, could happen. And so for me, that's where we go into it.
Kids space is the easiest space to do this. Like, this is like, like, kids space
lie a lot where they just use the same keywords and keep phrases and they just
kind of add to it at the very end. And they don't keep the same content. They
just don't, they lie.
so I like to go from there. Okay, so is that making sense? Put it in the
comments. You know, I definitely want you to, when you do recon and research,
you're doing patterns. And I'm telling you, I do recon and research every day. I
challenge you to do it every day. Now, the reason why I want you to do every day
is we're trying to get clarity around the viewer. That's all we're trying to do.
Because if we're finding something that works, the viewer actually likes it. Like if
you get a high view count, high engagement, low subscriber, they don't know what
they have half the time. Right. So what we want to do is like, oh, what can we
learn from that? What can we glean from that? And then we want to deep dive into
it a little bit in a predictable way, which is what are we going to do? And we
don't want to necessarily do it too close to when their momentum. I've had students
that do it too close and they don't see the benefit of it, you got to do it long
enough. And, you know, that's why we have several buckets and we'll get into that a
little bit later. But, you know, what we want to do is have several different
ideas. So you just don't hit the same thing over and over again, you know, what's
inside this or whatever. You know, what you want to do is have a variety of
different titling and also content delivery that it's similar but different,
distinctive enough of the opportunity. That's where I built or I survived a video is
different than I buy. It's just different type of activity.
So in this, does anyone have any questions on patterns of predictability on this?
Like if you do, just go ahead, put it in there. Justin, I think there's some
questions coming in. Yeah, first one we've got coming up is Janice and Blaine. If
you have videos already, can you rename them so they fit into the buckets?
It depends. If they're really horrible videos, it doesn't matter how much you polish
a turd, a turd's a turd. That's just the way it is. So it depends.
If it's somewhat good results. It's great. What we want to do is just make sure
that there's some great
indicators that says it's worth it. If not, I would probably just remake the video
because if no one saw it, I'd rather remake the video and make it better based on
what I'm teaching you. So awesome. Would now be a good time. Your husband probably
grew up on a farm. That's it's farm language. So I grew up on a farm. Doesn't
matter how much you polish so awesome time served if you have multiple videos
already in a bucket and one is performing better than all the others with the same
format how do we figure out why yeah we're going to get into data analysis for it
so there's something of when when you're you're doing it it was either topical where
even if it was the same bucket there's some some x -factor that got people to click
more. So I'd kind of validate that. And then to look at retention levels, you might
have done a better job with the edit or storytelling. There might be some different
engagement points. It could have been even a different length. There's multiple things
that we'll actually look at. But in this exercise, all we want to do is identify.
All we want to do is identify. We don't need to analyze yet. We just need to, oh,
we see a pattern we identified the pattern we put them into a sheet that's all we
want to do right now because what we're looking for is ideas we want ideas that
would work okay does that make sense awesome so daniel's question uh trending news
versus evergreen so he asked but what if your content is trending and not evergreen
what What do you look for there?
Like,
okay, that's, Daniel, that's a really great question. I want to say this. The only
reason why things trend is it's more for a general audience. Like there's more of a
general audience that's watching it. If it's a very hyper -focused, you'll never
trend. I know how to trend every single time. Like, you have to broaden your
audience. To do that, it has to be a broad appeal. Now, it could be around, you
know, video games. Like, there's a lot of people that would watch it. They might
not consume a channel as much, but it would be more relevant from them. There's a
lot of opportunity there. So when you do it, I think you're looking at it not the
evergreen approach at all. You're just saying, oh, when I get my views, I get it,
you know, just in that first week or two weeks or 21 days. And I don't get much
on the back end. I'm going to teach you how to fix that. But I can guarantee you.
I've done it over and over and over again. And the best way to do that is have
relational content. The patterns of relational content of certain keywords that you're
using will always trigger other videos surfacing and being watched. Happens all the
time. Okay. I want to answer a question here. There was one question here,
Justin, that was talking about the psychographics. So I think it was Orlando's.
Can you relate this to psychographic components of a viewer, of the viewer? Yes.
When I'm doing recon in research, when I'm going through it, I'm trying to figure
out the value prop. If you remember the exercise that we did on Monday, and you
might have not been there, or you probably haven't watched a live stream or you did
or you didn't really get what I was doing, which was I was trying to get to the
psychographics of the viewer I wanted, right? I knew I wanted to have an older
audience. And so instead of having a younger audience, I wanted to develop to a
little bit older audience. Why? Because I didn't want to make kids' content. I
didn't want to make teenagers' content. I think my content could engage with that
certain viewer. And so I was like looking at those other videos. And you noticed
that as I started to refine my search on the type of viewer I was looking for,
okay, which is seeing the thumbnails weren't as bright, you know, wasn't this, this,
you know, crazy, you know, smile, whatever, you know, and it was more subtle, but
yet more engaging. I'm like, okay, you know, and they're longer videos. It was like
a couple hour videos, you know, that was in there. But that's what I was looking
for. I was looking for that because that would give me a higher predictability of
what I was looking to create for and the reason why. And so in doing that, you
know, it surfaced a lot of new videos and I kind of click on it. And then the
next thing I look for is, and this is a really big one, is what is the value
prop? Okay. And the value prop for a lot of the stuff, it's like,
oh,
and we went through that example, there's a value prop of, oh, discovering unique
places that you've never been, right? But there's other themes there. It's like when
you really look at it, there's different themes, and one's about discovery, one's
about curiosity. The other one's about being scared or horror. And like, I didn't
want that because that leads, yeah, it's an easy click, easy view, but that's not
what I wanted. It doesn't get me excited about it. Like as a content creator, I
like to discover things. I like to explore things. So that's where it's at.
So yes, everything relates to the psychographics. Like at the end of the day, that's
what we're trying to do is understand content, the relationship of the content to
the viewer and the value prop. And then two, how it's going to connect with them,
especially when we're talking to the Maslow hierarchy of needs. Yeah, can I give it
a really good example of somebody that did a great job on that and then it went
to another level with a new director in a movie and they okay so there's this this
trilogy called star wars oh dear oh dear indeed right you know already know where
i'm going with this we as people like darrell's talking about psychographics were
creatures of habit and it created this incredible fandom i'm going to be really
quick on this and then there was these last three movies that came out the first
one as me as a person that's okay fan but watching my boy get really excited about
it like okay i'm going to get into this with them we watched the older ones we
got into that one and we're really excited about the second one to come out and
you could see how the first one touched true to the hardcore fans and the audience
that loved what it was doing they switched to a new director and the new director
did something really weird with it that he pretty much burned and alienated
everything that it built upon before. And the patterns that were created and the
psychographics that the audience came to love and cherish and flipped it on its head
and that person was burnt and destroyed for it. And it ruined a great opportunity
for the newer audience to come in and connect with their parents and everyone that
were connected with it as well. And that's what we're talking about when Daryl's
going psychographics and these repeatable patterns. So we are people that are
creatures of habit that love to go through this. And that Star Wars is a great
example of how not to do it. I just had to throw that out. Let me use that as
the case because I'm the one that got ran over, you know, by Star Wars. So like
my moment of doing content is when I watched Empire Strikes Back. Like it's in my
book. It's a part of my life. I became fanatical of the original trilogy of Star
Wars, right? I stood in line for two days and I'd rented out the whole movie
theater, even though I stood in line because I wanted to be with my people, right,
for Phantom Menace. And I only wanted to watch, I literally only wanted to watch
Star Wars with the people that I love. And so I invited people to come to it. It
was like, hey, it's on me, you know, whatever. But I bought the whole theater out.
It was a great experience, you know? Was it, was it like the continuation of?
Was it as good as the original trilogy? No, not for me, but it was good. It was
really good. I watched it, you know, hundreds of times. I actually like it. Clone
wars, not so much, you know. You know, it was a little cheesy.
I wanted a lot more in -depth on it. But I still watched it. I still bought it,
you know? And then realistically, the fall of Anakin Skywalker was epic and I loved
that fight and there was like a whole thing. I felt everything was a little too
rushed, to be honest with you in that. However, I'm okay with that. But the moment
that Disney took over and bought the franchise, they didn't, they weren't true to
the core of the audience, what the audience is looking for. I watched the original
trilogy thousands of times. I literally buy it every time it comes out. Digital, I
have more copies of that than anything else. On the wall, I have the original
script from Empire Strikes, or from a New Hope right there. I have, you know,
Star Wars member ofalia. I literally walked out and I'm like,
I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm probably not going to come back of one of
the shows. And it was like freaking last Jedi. You know, I'm like, this is
ridiculous. Like, like, Rain Johnson, like, he ruined. He ruined it. And then, too,
they're ruining the franchise. They could, it could be the most successful franchise
of all time if they're not trying to alienate their viewer. And they, they said it
purposely. We want new viewers coming into it. Well, no, I have kids. My kids,
like, I have a, I have a daughter that's a hardcore starboard fan, more, more
hardcore than me. Her love has come through us watching it together. So, yeah,
Anyway, my whole point in all this is we've got to look at patterns of what the
psychographics that people are wanting and connecting with your content and know what
that value is and then hold that value really important so you don't alienate new
viewers that are coming in or also alienate people that actually love what you're
doing. Now, that doesn't mean you can't push the needle. That means that you can't
expand out. But ultimately, You know, you've got to be very careful when you're
creating culture because that's what you're trying to do in a community that you're
trying to be as predictable as you can while also adding surprise and delight.
That's what's great. You know, there's a lot of predictability in this. Okay, so
let's go ahead and break down.
So did all of you get a chance to do some recon and research. Go ahead and put
it in the chat real quick. Was anyone surprised?
If you were surprised, I was surprised or I found something interesting.
You know,
okay, Justin, if you wouldn't mind just grabbing someone that was surprised that we
could have a quick conversation. And then two, I want people that were confused or
we want to we want to give some clarity on that one too so if you can pull into
a couple okay Tony and Vanessa you were surprised you're coming up all right can
you hear me
yep hello all right yeah so what surprised us is you know even though we're a
travel blog we do have a mission and an intention to really pivot towards traveling
and giving. And we found that the majority of the videos that we gravitated towards
and that we really, you know, we're kind of the avatar that we're looking for,
were the giving videos way more than the travel videos. And so it kind of leaves
us in a how do we make this pivot it's not making a pivot it's just being more
clear of the direction you're going right because you're always wanting to do that
you've got to travel to get to someplace to give right so the giving videos it's
like what makes them unique and that's where that's where i would put those in a
group say okay here's travel videos here's travel videos with giving and here's
giving videos you have three different groups for it. Does that make sense? It does.
Okay. Just get the data. We'll teach you what to do. And the key is coming up
with the idea of the right type of titling structure for that. And we'll get into
the specifics for that for sure. All right. Thank you so much. Hey, we're bringing
on everyday Chris. Your turn. And then get Orlando too. Okay. Hey,
Daryl. Hey, Chris. The biggest thing for me was I've been doing all the research
trying to find all of these channels kind of based on the Tesla content. And last
time you said, be different. So I've been making videos trying to be different.
I posted one where I tried taking my wife to work using Tesla's full self -driving.
Did really, really well. So when I'm doing my research, everyone seems to do the
same stuff, which is talk in a studio and go out to their Tesla and explain
something. So I've been having difficulty trying to find content. Like content for
it. So what I want you to do is don't look, you know every Tesla video that has
come out and will ever come out. Would you agree with that? I agree. Okay. So stay
away from Tesla and stay away from EV.
Look for another vertical that is around a product or a type of industry.
You know what I'm saying? And I don't care what it is. And that's where you're
going to get your ideas from. So similar to what I was telling Nick Pro to do,
you've got to get out of your bubble. And the best way to do that is like try to
figure out something that would be replicatable that you can translate over.
Because it's like like an endurance of something, like that's a style of video you
can get what, hey, we're really going to test this product to see the deuce and
dose, right? And you can get very specific in it. But when it comes to the type
of content, we're going to elevate your, your storytelling to do things a little bit
differently. We're going to get to that a little bit later, Chris. But what you've
got to do is like look at something that's product centered, that isn't a totally
different vertical and then figure out how they, how they modify it, how they go
for it. And you can do, like, I would probably go down the routes of airplanes.
And I know the airplanes doesn't make any sense with Tesla type stuff, but it does
because they're going through and doing some patterns of things. And then two,
there's a type of viewership, not the fly with me stuff. The fly with me, they
want to go flying, but it's more kind of the review type. You can go down the
rabbit hole of solar panels, which I think you'd probably have a really good
understanding of that too. But I think it's just like try to figure out another
related product that would be looking, would be good to look down.
Now, the good news is I'm at the tail end of this call, I'm going to introduce a
tool that's going to help you do that. Does that sound good, Chris. That's awesome.
Thank you so much. Great.
Awesome. Orlando, you are up.
Thanks for getting me on. I appreciate it. All right. So you're kind of a little
frustrated in this. Tell me, tell me what's going on. Yeah, so I'm a doc. And our
value prop for what we're doing is to try to provide options for patients so they
can understand not only physical health, but mental health. And the problem is they
seem to be very disparate. When I look for mental health, we get things like Andrew
Huberman and other individuals of that oak, which is kind of hard for me to
differentiate because they have such a high subscriber rate for most of the topics
that we're focused in that neuroscience area. And then when you talk about physical
health, it goes completely different. And so the two don't seem to intermingle when
I go to the It doesn't intermingle much. And I want to tell you why. Yeah. When
someone's worried about their physical health, they're all in on that. That's all
they're in on. They're just down that rabbit hole. They're just focusing on it.
Mental health is a totally different thing. Now, the cool thing you're able to do
is, is it the chicken or the egg? Like, what's going to be first? So when you're
helping someone, what do you help with them first? You got to triage it. You got
to see what's going to be the most impactful to them and what's impacting their
function and what they want to do on a day or day. Okay. And have you noticed
that certain things that you're very personalized, right? So you're like, you're going
to do a triage. You're going to go from there. You can't do, I would say you
can't do a triage channel per se because it's just to chew it across the board,
right? We got to get honed in. So I would look at what is that starting point.
Now, I can tell you right now that if I was in your shoes, Orlando, and I was
going through my psychographics, and I'm saying, hey, you know, a lot of the people
that would be, you know, using us would be, you know, millennials, Gen Xers,
and even some boomers in that regard, right? What's one thing that they want?
What would you think that is? Based off of that demo, I'm not quite sure. I mean,
to us, I would imagine that they want a personalized treatment for them.
See, and you're looking, you're looking at what you're offering them,
okay? What they want is to live longer, to have more energy,
you know, to get through a day and not feel the pains of getting older. Like,
that's what it is, right? And so, so that is that commonality of a starting point.
doing different things and I lost 40 pounds over the last, you know, six months or
so. But it's just like, but the key to it is that is that value prop.
And then when you put it in that one, then it opens up other discussion points
where that all makes sense in your triage. Does that make sense? Yeah. Thank you. I
appreciate it. Okay. So don't, don't look at, when I'm looking at it, it's like
that, you know, anti -aging, you know, get into that specifics and then really go in
depth. So,
okay. Justin will do one more and then I need to go into the next part of this.
Okay. Next one. Let's go with, see here we would.
It was Christine and Gene.
Hi there.
travel as a retirement like retiring and traveling yes full time like we sold
everything we own so we're we have no home okay okay so let me let me do it no
there's tons of channels out there it's probably not what you're looking for um it's
like uh like i i've literally known people and there's people on this call that
literally sold everything and bought a freaking boat you know what i'm saying they're
just they're just doing that so it's just they're out there out there. The thing
would be is don't look at the age group of retirement and doing that,
like saying, oh, we're going to go do this or whatever. There needs to be something
else because the way that I look at it is we're selling everything and doing
something crazy and we're just going to go live on a cruise ship our whole life.
There's channels that do that. They literally, it's just day -to -day cruise ship
stuff, right? And so you have that and there's other things. It was just like,
oh, no, we're just getting getting her into everything and we're downsizing and we're
going to go live how we're going to end up where we need to go. Now, the
difference would be is there's certain veins that you can go and find in it. You
need to find the veins. And then, too, like, it could be RV. It could be boats.
It could be, you know, people that bought an island, they can go buy a piece of
ground that they're homesteading, you can find all that and start seeing the patterns
of predictability on that, if that makes sense. Right. So even patterns of
predictability in like off -grid living and boats, we have, like, that's really
nothing that we know anything about. We're not looking, all we're looking for is the
story, the idea, the thumbnail, and the title. It's just like,
like, what's going into that? I'm not saying that homesteading would be your vein
because I think you're more about seeing the world and not being tethered, right?
Right. So I would kind of lean more towards that. And there's tons of people that
do that. We actually had a guy that's a jump starter that does trains and he
literally just goes on a train. He just loves trains long, you know, it does train
reviews and just getting hundreds of millions of video views. It's just crazy. Yeah.
Okay. All right. We'll take a look at some of that stuff then. Okay. This is
really quick. Can you give Prisina a few words for her to kind of take a breath?
Because sometimes she is stressing out and trying to find those things. And I'm
telling her that maybe that's not on us and a lot know us here on the call, but
it just takes time. We are not going to get everything done in just one time,
right? So that's what I'm trying to. Yeah, I would want her hand and let her know
that. Yeah, well, I had 1 ,000. Don't put pressure on it to get it right out of
the gate. This is a 14 -week process. And even after the 14 weeks,
I just want you to know the foundation of what we're doing. You're not going to
get it all and you're not going to succeed right out of the gate. Like it just,
it's a very rare thing. But what I want you to do is to like every call I want
you to say, oh, I never understood that or oh, that now that makes sense.
That's all I want. And then the next thing would be how do you apply it? Right.
Well, we definitely get that. We are learning this time around is so much different
and amazing for us. So thank you very much. That's great. Yeah, for sure. Okay.
Well, let me, Justin, let me jump into next. And so the whole thing that
it's about this, okay? So it's all about understanding your data and also
understanding that relationship of that data that is with your viewer. And a lot of
it, we're going to show you how to analyze it in Section 7 and 8 of channel
jumpstart. But what we need to do is have our hypothesis. So I actually had you
start filling out your demographics, psychographics, what they do online,
offline, for a viewer persona. And then now we're trying to understand content and
validate, oh, is this the type of viewer persona that it is or not? And we're
going to get a little bit more in depth in that. So I'm grateful that you guys
are surprised seeing what type of content that's out there, what's working, what's
not working. And if you don't find something that's not working, or you don't find
your idea not working on YouTube, it could because of the delivery or the format.
So it's not like a bad idea. It's just like, there might be a variable or two
that's there. Okay. So let me introduced to you the process that we're going
through. So the process that we're going through is doing recon and research every
day. We're expanding your ideas and trying to have these little points of discovery.
And you're like, oh, this is really cool. Or it'd be really cool if I did this.
Now, in the example of everyday Chris, if you always hit Tesla content, he's already
watching it. I want to get outside the bubble. So it's like finding something that
could be around a product or a niche that would be outside of automotive,
outside of EV automotive, and something else so that he can start seeing, oh, here's
our trends. Like literally all the trends that we found that work in other trends,
worked in some other things, because it's human nature. All we're doing is taking
that passion that people have. And I'm going to show you this Venn diagram again.
All we're doing is taking this right here. So when you really break it down, it's
like what you're passionate about, what your audience cares about, pop culture and
shareable moment, it's like this whole value proposition. It could be done. All we're
just looking at is, what is the passion of the niche, right? So if it's airplanes,
what does your audience care about? Okay, let's figure out with that crossover. Let's
see if there's pop culture or relevancy. What's that shareable moment? If we're
looking for those patterns, then it becomes very predictable that you can do that
literally with any other type of thing that would be relevant for the conversation.
So that's where it's at. So hopefully you had a really great recon and research.
I just want you to do it every day, you know, several times a week at least to
go from there. Now, why do I want you to do it? Well, a lot of you said, oh,
man, it comes so easy for you to see the type of viewer or engage with it. I
need that to be you. I need to, you have a really deep understanding what your
audience loves and what they don't. I'm going to teach you how to do that for your
own audience. But also, I want you to start seeing what the value is in the
content around other people's content. Because once you see that, it's easier for you
to internalize it and to execute on it.
You know, so here is the thing.
So we actually have a jump starter that developed a tool that you're all going to
get access to. Justin's going to put it in chat and then also we'll have you sign
up with a specific link. You get the free trial through this.
It does cost stuff, of course. But as long as you're in this cohort, going through
the 14 weeks, you're going to have access to this. But I want to show you what
this is and what we're trying to do here. Okay. So it is,
I think a lot of content creators are using ChatGBT to have a really good
understanding of who your viewer is. However, it's not giving the right data points.
You're just not getting the right data points. And so Fernando is on.
And Fernando's developed and his team has developed something exclusively of what
we've done for channel jumpstart. He literally built it off of channel jumpstart
system of the way that we process it. Now, how everybody else in the world is
going to use it, they're going to use it the way that they want to. There's a lot
of companies using it for data and having a good understanding. But Fernando, if you
wouldn't mind just jumping on real quick and just kind of share with everyone what
the tool is. And then, too, I'm going to go through and show them why they're
gathering stuff and then how to leverage it. And then we're going to give them some
assignments.
Absolutely. Well, first off, thank you so much for having me on, Daryl. Everyone
who's here on the call you guys are
that you have never been able to do so before. Effectively, what SuperFans does is
that it gives you access to the public data. Of course, we're not pulling private
data and sharing that with anybody, but the public data of any YouTube channel that
you can imagine. This includes all of the titles, metadata, likes,
dislikes, and very importantly, the audience conversations, the comments. So You can
point our tool to any series of videos or any channel on YouTube and use our tool
to that understand what is this audience talking about, how are they feeling about
the things that they're talking about, what content is most resonating with them. And
really, that's just the beginning, right? Sky's the limit, as you guys have seen
with AI and really be able to use this to develop your content further.
As Darrell will show here, you know, we have the ability to both look at specific
types of videos. You can point us at any video or group of videos you want or at
any specific or at any specific channel. So, Darrell,
let me know how I want to, I want to say, I need to get it. I need to get
something on my chest. Everybody's like, oh, AI, AI is writing scripts for me.
AI is doing this. And I'm like, what in the hell you doing? Like, that's the worst
thing you could never do as a content creator.
trying to get clarity. We're trying to get clarity around the viewer, right? Now, we
can have the assistant help us get clarity on titling or the relationship of data
that we don't see. Or did you see some of those videos had like 30 ,000 comments?
I don't have time to go through 30 ,000 comments, okay? But I can tell you right
now, There's certain signs that I look for, and over the last, what have been two
years that we've been working on this, Fernando? Over the last two years, I've been
saying, hey, Fernando, it'd be really cool if it did this. And he's like, okay,
yes, you know, and he's done it. And it's just like, we, Mr. Beast and I used to
keep track in comments, old school, in a database, a spreadsheet of a user that
would say, oh my gosh, I just fairly found this channel. Now, we can use that as
a flag to say, okay, when do they start a video? What videos did they watch in
secession? And then, two, what was their comments along the way? And it's just like
so powerful. So the whole reason why we're doing recon and research is to make
better decisions of what's out there. And then, two, what we need to do is start
to internalize and have a better conversation of what the value really is. Because
sometimes you might not see the value, but you can have a discussion with it now
of, okay, what did the people find out of it? And you might not be able to take
a comment and understand it, but this AI is now looking at the comment, analyzing,
seeing the patterns of similarities, and it's connecting with it. Okay. Does that
make sense, everyone? I know that there's some of you on this call that are really
hesitant and scared because this is new and you're not going to know what to do,
but I'm going to break this down. All it's going to be is a conversation. It's
like you're going to have a personalized assistant helping you, and you're going to
treat them like a human and be nice to the AI worlds because the underlords or
whatever is there, and you just don't want to do it. Now,
there's a comment from Ryan. What if there's no comments? There's a lot more data
than just comments. Trust me, comments just because there's a little clarity. There's
so much more we can go into this. Okay? So what we're doing is we got to give
super fans a data point. So when you go and sign up, you're going to come to this
thing right here. and basically it's going to say add a channel or add a group.
Okay. What I do is if there's a channel that is doing something that I like that
I would say which is in the same vein of type of content that I'm going to
create, I'm going to add the channel, okay? You can see from the recon and research
I added Ghost Town Living, Desert Drifter, and Drew does as channel types.
Okay. Now, you'll want to add your own channel as well. Okay.
This is why you saved your links the other day is I want you to add them in
here, right? So add the channel from here. And ultimately, I want to add your
channel. If it's brand new, I would probably not add the channel. It needs to have
some data. Okay. If it doesn't have any data, if you don't have many videos up, I
wouldn't do it. But you can create, you know, you can create these specific
channels. Don't go overboard on this. What you want to do is be more tactical,
okay? You've already pre -identified it. You already looked at, oh, this is, here's
the patterns that we really like. Now with videos, I want you to start thinking in
groups. YouTube deals in groups. We're dealing within buckets, but we're going to
call them groups right here. And right here, you can add a group, and then you can
add videos to the group. And so right now, I think it's limited to 10, or is it
15 in a, Fernando? You can go up to 20 on the video groups now.
Okay. So on video groups, you can go up to 20. Oh, I mean, videos within a group.
Is it 10 or 15? You can go up to 20 videos in a group now. Okay. So all you do
is give it a name. Right now, I have weird locations and overnight ideas.
And to add a video, all you got to do, and it's really simple. Let me just go to
YouTube real quick, and I'll show you what's happening here. So I might say,
oh, let me make sure it's relevant. I don't want to delete anything. Okay, so
here's one that was visiting a loneliness restaurant. Okay.
So I'll go ahead and click on that. I'll put it in here, hit add video. And at
that time, what it's doing is you see it's initializing. It's adding it to the AI.
So it's basically looking at what's going on with the video from the metadata data
that it has. It's going through all the comments that it has. It's also going
through every frame of the video that it has. Anything else that I'm missing,
Fernando, on that?
Yeah,
all of the metadata that's available. So also, you know, a little bit less relevant,
but relevant for internally tags. It's looking at the metadata of the actual
comments. So are people liking and replying to the comments? How much is that
happening? And then someone had asked if it actually looks at what the fans are
looking at in terms of where are they commenting on other channels? That is, in
fact, something that we are looking at. It is going to be available to everyone as
a tool very shortly, but AI does. They take that into consideration as well. Now,
keep in mind, if you're adding a lot, it's going to take a little while to process
and initialize. But once it's done, it's done. And then we get to come over here
to the AI assistant. Okay, now Now, with the AI assistant says, what do you want
to chat about today? Do the video groups or the channel? So if I want to have
conversations about Drew does channel, I can go there. I can go into Ghost Town
Living. I can go into Desert Drifter. And if I want to look at my bucket ideas,
I can only go to the ones that are actually showing up. So the ones that,
like this one's still processing. So as soon as this is done processing,
initializing, it's going to show up. But you can, it'll have it come up. And then
what you're doing is having a conversation with it. And so what I wanted to do
with all your data, and the reason why I was having to save it, is I want you to
add the channels that are here, and then also create a group around the type and
style of the videos and put it here. Okay. And What I want you to do is not
because I think Brian brought it best. How many groups should we start with? I'd
probably do five. I wouldn't go more than five groups because that's five times 15
or 20. I think it's 15 or Fernando, but I hit a limit. I don't know where it was
the other day. I was going to make notes. But it's either this or whatever, right?
But don't overdo it on the channels either. I'd probably only do like three or four
channels that would be relevant of the type of content you want to create. And keep
in mind, you can have some videos that are with a channel in a group. I would
encourage you to do that around a certain type of content because there might be a
certain type of content that would fit the theme. However, this channel doesn't fit
the theme, but you want to be able to understand that. Okay, is this making sense?
Yeah, groups are buckets. Yeah, you want to think as groups as buckets. We'll get
into that very specifically.
Okay.
Now, let me go and show you something very quickly.
Justin, are you still on? Yes, I am. Okay. What I want to do is just make sure
we have clear understandings of what they're doing and what they're going to get out
of it. So for right now, we're taking this a little bit slower than we all the
other stuff that we've been doing. We're trying to help you understand this and then
we'll know how to teach it. And so that's kind of why we're taking a little bit
more time with this one. This is by far the most important thing in channel
dumpster, like when it comes around the viewer and understanding the viewer and the
viewing relationship is the number one thing I want this new group to go away with
that will literally open up your mind.
So I'm going to treat Drew does as a,
as like it was my own channel. I'm going to just treat that in my own channel. I
really want to deep dive into the groups. It will get a little confusing if I go
groups first right now, but I want to be able to do it from here. Okay, so I'm
going to come to the AI assistant, and it will do channels first. I'm going to go
ahead and click my channel right now, and then it comes up to this. Okay, this is
really important. Okay, there's three options. We can chat with the personal assistant
about your data. That means the personal assistance can help us understand all the
data that is attached to that YouTube channel that we have access to. We can
compare with another channel, or we can go with the fan persona.
Now, this is still in beta. It's come a long ways, but it's much better than
anything ever out there because it's literally geared on the data set that you've
collected and not all this other crap that it's here. And I want to tell you my
personal take on AI when it comes true profiling,
you might have seen in the news that people were really hurt and were astonished
that the output of some of their data wasn't accurate. It showed the founding
fathers that they were diverse in color. And it wasn't accurate. It wasn't the
founding fathers. And it was like it had this data point. Okay. So whatever we're
programming or whatever your data point that you tell the AI to be, it's going to
reflect the outcome of your results. So the whole thing that Superfan is built on.
I want to be clear is data points. And so we might do stuff and we might wipe it
and start over if we're not giving it what it wants. However, that being said,
Fernando and his teams work very closely with us for the last two years and we
refined and we're prompting you what you should consider instead of saying,
oh, I'm trying to figure this know. And so for me, it's all about this.
It's all about really getting this to that level. Out of all these right here,
I want to know my own data, but I want to know the persona more. I know that
this can go here, but the persona one's more interesting because we can start seeing
patterns that you can't see. I might be able to see them because I've been doing
it long enough, but you might not be able to see them. But with this AI tool,
you're going to see them a lot quicker. Anything to add on this, Fernando?
Nope, Darrow, I think you said it right. You said it perfectly. The only thing, as
you know, you guys already in the team know, but I just wanted to mention to
everybody, guys, channel jump starters, channel jump starters are our VIPs. So any
sort of, you know, either any issues or anything with the beta, let us know
directly. Don't hesitate, don't wait. Sometimes I feel like people wait a little bit
to tell us about, you know, what they would like to see, things that are good,
things that they were
What we want to do is come in, put your data in there, add some channels, add
some groups. Then when you come into it, let's go ahead and do this. If you have
your own personal channel, I would probably explore a little bit with your fan
persona of who your persona is. So I'm going to go ahead and notice that we
actually have some types. We have superfan, we have fan, and we have potential fans.
So to translate that, I'm going to replace the word fan with viewer. So potential
viewer, viewer, and then superfan would be a core or hardcore viewer. I want to be
able to say, okay, I want a potential fan. I want to know who would be the best
likely to actually communicate with and what they find valuable.
So I'm going to start a conversation here with the potential fan. This is the
potential viewer. you're going to learn that 80 % of what we do is trying to go
after this person because this person will always turn into this person if you can
bring the right type of value and then this person will engage to this type of
person when you bring consistency. That's just the way that is, okay? So we're going
to go ahead and create a conversation and notice that it literally brings in
prompts. Okay, so Kara's the name of the AI, But it's literally telling us very
specifically out of the gate who the potential viewer is for that channel.
So Drew does, I'm pretending that's my channel. We can see that they're 28 years
old. So between a younger millennial to an older Gen Z year that loves adventure,
brings in psychographics, social media into this, their adventurous spirit,
enjoys comedy, frequent traveler, right? They have some key words that are even here,
digital market or stuff like that, right? And what this is doing is just kind of
giving us a starting point. So everything that you've been doing, it's going from
there and it's giving you a little bit more detail. So like we can actually do
another thing right here, which if you want to enable prompt suggestions, which I
would recommend that you
to come up with, you know, and these are based on giving you the proper details
that you need. So build me a detailed psychographic profile of the audience of this
channel, okay? And when you do that, just go ahead and hit it. It's going to come
in. What's really cool is as we do this,
and what we're asking you to do is it's not as fast is what you'll want it to be
in this interaction, but it is collecting data. It's going to get smarter every time
we give it input. So when you give it smart input, it gets smarter. If you give
it bad input, it gets, it's dumber. So we want to make sure that we do smarter
input. You can see right here, we're starting to validate this of the sentiment,
based off of this thing, you know, detailed psychographic profile of the audience,
right?
And, okay, for me, adventurous spirit, even though that it said here, fans are
likely thrill seekers to enjoy stepping out of their own comfort zones, exploring new
adventures, valuing unique experiences. So that unique experiences is interesting,
okay? And yes, when you do this, we're going to, I'm going to show you exactly how
to get ideas out of this for video ideas. I'm going to show you how to use this
to give you story ideas. I'm going to show you how to actually see the most
engaged moment. But based off of this, like Fernando, what would be the best
question to ask next? Is it to come to the prompts or is it to drill in deeper?
I would. So because we're talking to a fan here, I would drill in deeper. If you
notice that, you know, of course, our AI based on, on, you know,
feedback from you guys is completely adaptable. So you can talk to it like you
would talk to Kara. However, at this point, and you can even see in that first
line, for everyone here, it's trying to be Eric, right? Like the AI at this stage
is instructed to be a person. So I would talk to it like you would talk to a
fan. What are the biggest questions you might have to a fan? For example, what is
it that caused you to click or to engage on a single video? What could I do?
Yeah, that's like, that's really great. What type of content resonates most with the
audience? And so it's asking a smarter question than I would have probably asked. So
I'm going to go ahead and hit the tab key and then hit return. And let's see what
it says right there. Because like now we can start having conversations with this.
And what's really cool is all we're trying to do is get clarity on the viewer.
And when you get clarity on the viewer, guys, that's when you're going to have
predictable success.
and was specifically interested in TikTok products, which it goes to show a little
bit of that nuance that you can find between the different fan program. But they'd
still watch, the super fan will watch anything, but they're more interested in the
other. But it's just like, oh, entry point, top of the funnel. Before I forget to,
if you really like an engagement and say, hey, this is really good. Give it a
thumbs up. The reason why is that's basically a data point for the AI that it did
good. Like, it's almost like giving your dog a treat. Like, they did good. And it
validates that, that, hey, it did bad. When it does bad, say it's bad. Or get very
direct with them. What I don't want you to do is be super nice with your AI.
Like, I want you to be critical with it. Like, oh, like, why did you come up with
this conclusion? I don't understand where that is. Make it explain itself. When it
explains itself, then you can get clarity, and when you get clarity, you can refine
that clarity. So, okay. So I'm going to go through this.
So this is really great. From a perspective of the fan, interested in those, okay,
you know, unique and quirky accommodations. Okay. If you really look at his channel,
it was about unique and quirky accommodations, right? Humorous travel experiences,
behind the scene looks, cultural, whatever, right? You can get right into it.
Leveraging this information is like emphasize novelty. Noveli is the key on this.
Like when novelty is there, then it's like, oh, okay, that's unique and quirky. It's
novelty. That's kind of pop culture -ish. You can go from there. And then, too,
like, all this other stuff, it's really, really cool. And you can like give me, you
know, let's just give me 10 video ideas with
titles that would work.
Now, I probably wouldn't go in, I probably wouldn't go in depth on this this early.
I'd probably want to get to know that the audience a little bit more. But I'm
going to go ahead and just do this, just so you can see the context of the way
that it's going to prioritize and it's a look. Now, this is only based off of the
data, the channel, guys. The other ones that I'm going to show you the groups is
actually more powerful of what I want you to do, because this is only going to
teach you about your audience, and then you're going to do a compare and contrast
with the groups. So that's what we're going to look, and I'm going to show you how
to do it.
But now, this one, it's not, like, titling's not the best on this,
but all we're looking for is the idea, and I'm going to teach you the process of
a title and how to do the title on it. This is where you need to do some
lifting, but sleeping in a spaceship, okay, out of this world hotel stays. You know
what I'm saying? Like, that would be the theme of the video. So it's like, hey, is
there an airplane that I can go stay in? Is there a spaceship? Because I'm thinking
of progression of things and that whole thing. So maybe I want to sleep in a UFO.
They have UFOs that you can sleep. There's a lot of stuff from there. And it's
like the wackiest theme hotels around the globe. Okay, that's a really great video.
Maybe I can do seven videos of seven different themed places around the world,
right? You know, sleeping in a lighthouse. Like, these are not the best titles, and
we can refine the titles for it. But what we need to do is just understand the
themes behind it. And then why, you know, why do you think these ideas are good?
I can't type here.
And I just want to have clarity on it, right? So we're going to be having clarity
with our AI. And then, too, we can have like the highest predictability.
And so some of this would be, oh, they gave suggestions in comments. And they give
us clarity on this. Like it's going to give us a lot of clarity.
So, I mean, you can literally have this conversation and go deeper and have a lot
more clarity. Now, the thing that I ask is the more clear you are on the idea of
why it works and we start looking at patterns. I'm going to show you how to I'll
do this. Like right now, I just want you to kind of explore with this tool, get
to know this tool as much as you can. Using it on your own channel, using it in
other groups is what the goal would be.
Darrell, one thing too, you mentioned about challenging the AI. I know I've said
this many times. If the AI overlords come for us, they're going to come from me
first. I'm generally quite mean to the assistant when it messes up because that is
what gives you the best results. So a great idea here or a great example here. I
was mentioning Hope Scope, you know, so I asked for it to suggest titles. I notice
a lot of those titles have colons, which is a very AI thing to do. It loves
adding like colon, like DIY fashion hacks, colon, transform TikTok trans into wearable
arts. That's how I would reply, right? Why do all of these have colones? I want
something more organic. Give me something that's more organic and fits my, you know,
my style. And then it switched that title to exploring TikTok's best beauty hacks,
which right away is a significant improvement. So I just really recommend everyone,
like challenge this. You know, if someone in your team gave you a really bad
answer, of course you wouldn't yell at them, but you would challenge it. And would
say, hey, this is right, you know, so. Yeah, and then, John, just let you know,
when you authorize your account to be that main account, it's going to give you
more data than someone's other account. Like, we can't go get data from somebody
else's account that's not public on it. But it will give us comments. Like, we can
get comments on it. And specifically, Kara, the AI assistant, will have access to
every single individual comment. The fan personas, John, because they're attempting to
replicate a fan of this channel, a potential fan might not have read every single
comment. Right, right. And that's the whole thing is, and I was going to go back
to, like, so if I come to channel and we click right here, this fan persona is
like, you're talking to a fan, you're not talking to Kara, okay? So that's the
difference for it. So, of course, it's not going to have it. So like, oh, I engage
with whatever. This is where a lot of the stuff, but I wanted to get some of this
stuff here, so I know how to communicate there. So if I was to put it in order
of priority of understanding, it'd be, help me understand my van persona so that
when I come over here, I can have that other connection. Now, why do we separate
this out? It'd probably be the question that you'd have is because you cannot do an
assistant, and you need to have a conversation with your fans like you'd have with
your fans differently than when you have with the AI, because that's a data point
that we don't want to collude. We want to keep separate so that we say, oh, here's
the viewer, here's the other one. So,
okay, very good. Okay, so what we want to do, who's excited about this tool? Put
it in the comments real quick.
We have been working really hard on this.
And when I say we, it's like Fernando's team. Like we just say, hey, it'd be cool.
Credit, where credit is due, Daryl. Couldn't do this without you guys. Absolutely
not. So, so, yeah, then. I'll say that right back to you guys. Yeah. So what we
want you to do is continue your Recon and Research, put your data in here,
okay, make the groups, okay? And then when you're coming in, I just want you to
play around with it and explore it, right? And we're going to do some very specific
training on this. But I want you to explore. It's not complicated.
It's very simple. Once you break it through, like you can music in it. Kara is
your personal assistant that's going to help you. Get all the data and interpret the
data when the fan persona this is a fan. So like, hey, you're just thinking of who
that avatar is. They won't know every video. They won't know every comment, but Kara
does, right? And you can get into the ideas. But the fan is going to give you a
perspective of what video you should create. And Kara is going to give you maybe
different based on the data that she's she's seeing. So you're going to get that
through comments and engagement in so many different ways. So here's the whole thing
is the reason why we're taking a little bit longer in Channel Jumpstart is we had
a fundamental issue that we need to address. Everybody would succeed once they start
understood properly. It's about the viewer. And then two, the emergence of AI was
coming on quite heavily, and I didn't want to change the training until we had this
really done, done in a way that it would give the data that you need,
which is not to do your job for you, but to assist you for doing your job and to
speed up the time. And then, too, not put the reliance on the AI to have your
success rate, because I'm here to tell you, you have to be smart as a creator,
just because this AI is doing it, it's not the right answer half the time. You've
got to look at and go deeper, you're going to challenge, and you need to start
seeing your own patterns. And when you can actually see your own patterns with AI,
then that's when you're going to actually expand. Okay? Let me do some quick
questions real quick.
Darry, if you have a question. Would you mind if I just show a quick example of
Kara here? Just to... Yeah, for sure. You want me Yeah, very, very, very brief. I
just wanted to show you guys a little bit of the difference of how you're going to
interact with Cara versus the fan persona.
Hopefully you guys can see my screen here. But this is looking at Hope Scopes
Channel. And I just wanted to point out the kind of differences of, you know,
common and why this has to happen, as Darrell said, a fan needs to be a fan and
we have to construct the AI to effectively operate like that. Or else, will be
start, they'll start being bleed over and, and the quality just reduces overall.
However, when you're talking to Kara here, as you can see, I'm looking at, I mean,
how long you guys do you're not sharing your screen? Oh, I am not sharing my
screen. All right, let me try. Oh, yeah, you are. Oh, okay. I will, let me read
it. I clicked the wrong bit. So, let me read it. Okay. So, as you guys can see
here, you know, how long would it take, right, to read through effectively, let's
say 50 ,000 comments or so, we'll say 30 ,000 hours and hours and hours.
And, you know, I did this right before the call when Justin had messaged me. So as
you guys can see here, we can look at comments. We can look at very detailed data.
I highly encourage you guys to also keep in mind, you know, these topics and
keywords that are surfaced by the AI, specifically around what engages channels,
just because this is what advertisers are looking at. You know, people are spending
millions of dollars to get this kind of data and apply that to their own
advertising campaigns, which will then run on your channels and bring you money. So
I highly encourage you guys, as Darrell said, to dive deep into this, understand
what's bringing the audience here. And just as an example from those 30 ,000
comments, we're able to pull out a specific user, leaving a specific common around
thrift shopping. So again, you guys are absolutely able to use this to dive into
individual data points all the way from the highest level data points to the lowest
individual level data points. But there you go. And one thing, Daryl, that you
always mentioned, that I really encourage people to use is don't ever miss any
questions or feedback that your fans are leaving by this, ask Kara for those pieces.
Yeah, no, that's great. I'm glad you brought that up. So what we're going to do
is, we'll forego questions for now, but what we want you to do is take it,
start playing around with it, start accessing it. Don't use the prompts as much as
you can. Those will help you start seeing the power of the tool, but then have
conversations with it. Now, the goal would be is we want one solid video idea, one
solid video idea that works. I'm going to have some additional training that's going
to come out, that's going to say, okay, how do you get the idea out of it
properly? But you need to add the information there so that we can get to that
level, because once you get it to that level, then you're able to say, okay, and
that's what I'll do from the group. So I'll kind of jump to the value here,
which is When you have a right bucket niche in a group, that it's like, give me,
give me four ideas or five ideas based off of this that would work for my
audience. And that or the audience I want to create. And once you're able to do
that, you can start refining it. And then I'll help you with the process of titling
it right. Because the titling is going to be easy once you understand it. It's hard
out of the gate because sometimes you don't see the nuance between it. But by this
training here today and other future trainer. You're going to have it dialed down,
which will then open up the opportunity to go into Section 4, which will start
creating that content. So we're still a couple weeks away from that, but I need you
to get into this and get comfortable with it. Let's get the questions.
And then please submit questions back to Justin. That's going to help us give
clarity on what we're going to present, how we're going to present. But if you
found this valuable, put it in the comments right now. I just want to make sure
you have that because right here, I'm telling you most people don't have access to
what we're doing here. This is the future, guys, of really getting clarity of
unstructured data, structuring it a way that we know what that data does because
data -driven decisions is what we do. We have a better chance of success when we're
making data -driven decisions, but without taking out the art, we need to be able to
have the art and passion do it, but it'll help increase our probability by
understanding who are creating content for and why. And then, two, having clarity on
what works and why. And that's all we want to do is be a predictable thing. So
please, please, please, put it in there. Justin's going to make sure that you get
an email and it's also going to be Discord. Make sure you put channel Jump Start
VIP as the coupon code. They'll go unlock it for, you know, 15 weeks or whatever
we said. But yeah, just definitely do that. We'll deep dive into this.
And then two, I want you guys to talk about this in your, in your accountability
groups. Hey, I found out I did this or I did that or whatever. Have these
conversations there because it's all about the group learning. And then, too, really
refining. And I just want to make it clear. I will some videos out to show you
exactly my process of doing it, but this is a lot to throw at you in the
beginning. I'm literally turning some things upside down just to give you clarity on
the viewer, and I don't want to go too fast because I want you to succeed, and
the best way to succeed is to predict what the viewer wants to watch because that's
what YouTube does, and if you can do that consistently, that's when you're going to
grow. So guys, thank you so much, and we'll see you on the next one. Thanks,
everybody.

PT3

Hey, Jumpstarters. We are ready to jump right in and cover something that's super
important, which is our content buckets and also our content strategy.
Now, the epicenter of everything in Channel Jumpstart, everything that we're doing in
Channel Jumpstart is understanding who the viewer is. That's why we've taken time to
go through the process of really trying to understand who we're creating content for
the psychographics, the demographics, what they do online, what they do offline. So
we have a really good understanding how they operate day to day and how they're
going to receive that content and what they're going to actually find valuable. So
the video viewer is the most important thing in Channel Jumpstar. It's the most
important thing on YouTube because YouTube's looking at what the viewer wants and
predicts what the viewer wants to do next. Now, believe it or not, the second most
important thing in Channel Jumpstart is our content buckets. This is something that
we're looking for because it's something that humans are looking for too. It's what
YouTube is looking for as well. So once we understand the viewer and the
relationship of content and your content strategy, which is your buckets, that's when
you're going to have predictability. And when you have predictability, then YouTube is
going to see viewers engage with your content and go deeper and deeper and deeper.
So what is a content bucket? You probably heard about this in my book or if you
had a marketing class, you know, you had a really good understanding of what content
buckets are. But I wanted to go through this a bit differently and make it very
simple by explaining three different ways that you can look at your content bucket.
By looking at this image
because if you have two different themes, you know, you will have two different
buckets. So each theme has to be the same. You have to be able to break it down
from a theme or a topic that's going to be the same.
So every theme, every topic deserve its own bucket. Now, the next thing that we're
looking at, similar metadata. So back in 2013, YouTube switched over to an AI,
and it's looking at exactly what the viewer wants. Well, the first thing when you
upload a video is looking for the relationship of your metadata, which is your
title, descriptions, your tags, to make sure that it's similar. And if it's similar,
then guess what? YouTube is going to recommend that. Now, it basically is looking
more deeper than that now, which is really putting a lot of weight on just the
title and who's actually releasing that video and if there's anything similar in your
library but also it's looking at the viewing patterns and that consistency of viewing
patterns and if it's something that viewers want and it's consistent around that then
guess what YouTube is going to recommend that because they can see that they
actually enjoyed something similar to that next which would be a similar video style
this is the framework this is the pacing this is the edit this is the way that
the video is going to fill and I'm telling you every bucket has to have one theme
one topic and it has to have a similar type of title and I'll give you an example
that here in a second and it also needs to fill the same which is it has the
same flow has of its same video format has the same framework, pacing, and etc.
Now, if you have more than one theme, then you're going to have more than one
bucket. So if you have two themes, you have two buckets. If you have three themes,
you have three buckets. When you have four themes, you have four buckets. When it
comes to titles of buckets, I'm going to show you how to actually do multiple
buckets because you're going to experiment and you're going to go a little bit
deeper. And you're going to say, okay, here's a theme. We might want to try it a
different way. And if it has a different type of title, it could be a lateral
bucket or it might be an experimental bucket. And we'll break this down in a lot
more detail. Okay. So, content also connects with the viewer.
It's like the driver of understanding YouTube and the viewers, how the viewer accepts
your content and when it's done with a certain format, when it's done in a certain
way, it's going to become predictable for you. My goal for you is when you go onto
YouTube that you're never going to see YouTube the same. You're going to see from a
content creator people's content strategy because of the way that they title, the way
they do the thumbnail, the way that they're engaging people in the video itself, and
you're going to start seeing how it's bringing value to the viewer. So when we say
it's all about the viewer, that is the epicenter of channel jumps there is the
epicenter of YouTube. But we need to look at it through the lens of that viewing
experience because when we're consistent, that potential viewer will click and they
become an active viewer. And that active viewership is something that we want, right?
We want them to come back and watch video after video after video and if the
values there consistently around a topic that they love a topic that they're curious
about a theme around that and you know each of the videos are very similar with a
lot of personalization for that specific video you're gonna turn potential viewers
into active viewers and active viewers into core viewers and core viewers into
hardcore viewers And when you do it consistently over time, believe it or not,
you're going to actually have more core and hardcore viewers, which that is the key
of really understanding consistency and getting consistent views. And as you come up
with new ideas and stuff that will really engage potential viewers, it's just going
to expand it and you're going to explode. So let's go ahead and break this down in
what you need to be consistent at. Your value proposition is the most important
thing around the buckets outside of the pillars, the three things that you need to
look at, right? And how do we become consistent in our value proposition? Well,
earlier in a training, we talked about your channel. You should be passionate about
something. And what we need to do is to make sure that theme, that topic is around
your passion, and it's about something that your viewer or your audience cares about.
And ultimately, to make it more powerful and relevant, we need to make sure that
it's around pop culture, something trending, something relevant. So in the value
proposition, if you're consistent with that value proposition, that can turn into your
bucket. This is something you can wash, rinse, and repeat. to bring that value very
consistently that can turn into a bucket so as we experiment with videos that would
work my whole goal would be you know could we make a video that our audience would
care about and can it be relevant is it something that they're able to engage with
well that could turn into a bucket now there's one other thing if we slide this
pop culture and being relevant over and we bring in one other thing, which is our
shareable moment,
this is the Goldilocks zone when it comes to a very solid content strategy and also
a content bucket strategy that would coincide with our content strategy.
So when we can bring value consistently and there's also a shareable moment, what
happens? Well, that Value is consumed by the viewer and then they share it with
others and then when they share it with others, they come and watch and it creates
that feedback loop that we're looking for and also what YouTube's looking for.
And that's when you have massive growth. And I can tell you, I've seen this time
over time when you're able to bring in value consistently and engage with them.
They do two things. They'll go and engage and then go deeper. So that will go from
a potential viewer to an active viewer, from an active viewer to a core viewer and
to a core viewer to a hardcore viewer. That's what we're looking to do. So let me
give you a perfect example of this in the biggest niche on YouTube, which is
entertainment. Now, I want to give you the best storyteller that I've seen, and it's
an example that I want all of you to see. He does a great job at storytelling and
help us really be entertained along the way and it is Ryan Trahan. He's been on
YouTube for a while and you can see he evolved into a really amazing storyteller
and so what we want to do is go to his channel and you can start to see very
clearly that he has buckets and so we want to go deep dive in a bucket and I
want to show you what a bucket is and how he's using a bucket to grow his
audience. So we can see this video title. I tried every seat on the most expensive
airline. It was uploaded five months ago. It has 25 minutes, 23 seconds.
I really like that thumbnail. It's a split thumbnail. And you can see,
you know, there's a progression going from economy to first class. So let's go ahead
and break it down to see could this actually be a bucket. So the first
important meta information we need to look at is the title. I tried every seat on
the most expensive, fill in the blank. So that way we can do a variety of the
things. And you can see if he titles this every time in this content bucket,
I tried every seat on the most expensive. All we need to do is look at things
that would have seats. And also, you're going from the economy class or the least
expensive to the most expensive. It's great storytelling. So this actually meets two
of the three categories that we're looking for. But let's kind to break this down
even deeper because when I want you to look at YouTube, I want you to see it
differently. Like my goal is when you go on YouTube, you're seeing it from a
viewer's perspective, but you're also seeing it from creator's perspective of how to
create replicatable patterns. So let's see if this actually checks out. So you can
tell that the value proposition, the topic,
the theme is around traveling. What we want to do is validate the thumbnail.
So we're doing a thumbnail check. We can see that Ryan is in economy class.
You can see that little coffee cup that he's holding it spilled a little bit
because you can see that he's squeezing between a really big guy and another woman
and you can kind of see he's concerned a little bit and then when you close your
eyes and open it up you can see economy class and his face and that's something
that that he's done a really great job and then he does a juxtaposition which is
first class you see his golden pillow around his neck. You see his sunglasses, his
AirPods. You see this golden glow. Also, he changed the logo from a red logo for
Delta to a gold logo and the word first class. So when I look at the bucket,
you can see that it's traveling. I always do a thumbnail check, and you can tell
that the thumbnail is related to the theme and topic.
Next, I tried every seat on the most expensive, fill in the blank.
We do a thumbnail check, does that support it? Yes, you can see a seat there and
you can see the different types of seats as well. So you can see that the
thumbnail supports the title and the title supports the thumbnail. That's what we
always need to guys. Like when you really break this down, we need to make sure
that the title always supports the thumbnail and the thumbnail always supports the
title. Why? Because the first thing that they're going to see is the thumbnail. And
then they're going to do a quick glance down at the title. If there's any type of
disconnect, any type of things that doesn't make sense, people won't click on it.
They're just going to move to the next thing. That is human nature. That's something
that we need to take into consideration. So what we need to do, a part of our
a progression. He started at an economy and he went to first class. When you look
at the video structure, that's a part of his video storytelling. He starts out an
economy and works his way up to a more expensive ticket on the most expensive
airline. Okay, once we understand this, everything checks out. What we want to do is
look at another factor, which is the traveling bucket. Could this actually be more
than one specific video? When I do a great video,
I always want to experiment and do something, but I want to experiment with the
thought in mind that this is going to turn into a bucket. And if it turns into a
bucket, I want to be able to replicate that. So I tried every seat on the most
expensive. I like to brainstorm this. This is something that you can do.
a car, a bus, a helicopter, a motorcycle, bicycle,
bicycle, and a boat. So we have multiple ways that this can turn into a bucket.
So this actually fits what I'm looking for when I'm converting a video into a
bucket because there's multiple ideas. And I'm not going from, you know, the most
expensive airline to the travel, to the train, to the car, to the bus in a video
because that wasn't what we're looking for we wanted to have one theme one topic
which is traveling and then one mode of travel okay and when you get that one mode
of travel that is that consistent value because in the comments you will see that
people say oh do a train next or do a car next I bet you can't do that on a
bus you know or do helicopters that's great That gives you a way that people want
to see you go deeper. And then it's also a replicatable format because it's around
a certain style of video that you can do over and over and over again. So there's
multiple buckets you can do there. However, in this example, I'm going to go back
to his channel and look at it. And you can see that he did something two months
ago around the same bucket okay I tried every seat on the most expensive train he
has 14 million views why is that look at the thumbnails look how similar they are
economy and first class you can see he is holding a pretzel he's concerned it's
crowded you can see people kind of in there where it's first class once again that
luxury has glasses the air pods he's holding a really nice mill and you can see
that gold glow this is the consistency that we're looking for i'm telling you this
is gold and when you really find this you don't have to try to recreate something
brand new you recreate it on a pattern that you know what works notice he's not
wearing the same type of sunglasses notice that he doesn't have the pillow around
him. There's something uniquely done in the new video that's a little bit different
than the other thumbnail, but you can see he's not holding a coffee, but he's
holding a pretzel. So that's what we're trying to look for, is having that pattern
of consistency. So when we do that, you can see when we click on the video,
I tried every scene in the most expensive airline. Lo and behold, guess what shows
up as suggested video to watch what's next. I tried every seat on the most
expensive train. So you see it has this data relationship between the two that's
really helping you know and predict what people want to watch next. And believe it
or not, people will say, oh, that was really cool. I want to see the train next.
And this is where I also put it in the description and I might pin a comment when
it first comes out. It says, hey, you know, I just did a new adventure on a train
or I'll pin it, someone says you should do it on train and I'll I'll pin that. So
that there is some data tie to it as well. But you can see right here that that
next video is very related. And that's what we're trying to do. That's what buckets
are so that it's like when they go and consume a 25 minute video, they're going to
see another one. Oh my gosh, this is great. Guess what happens when they go back
to the homepage when you upload, if they just watch this video and they video and
you upload another video in that bucket, they're going to see it on the homepage
because they just engaged with it. So this is that relationship that we're looking
for for the data relationship. And guess what? I tried every seat on the most
expensive train. Guess what comes up as the most suggested video for them to watch?
I tried the seat on the most expensive airlines. So you see that data relationship,
that data tie. Now, that is the goal. That's what we're trying to do on YouTube,
is to have that data relationship. But it's also that predictability of what the
viewer wants. Now, when we really break it down, and I want to go back on this
one, YouTube's always trying to find a way to have you go deeper as a viewer down
the rabbit hole. And it's going to look in your library first as a content creator.
So if you have this content bucket strategy, you know you have a high probability
if if you're following the format that I'm teaching you here right now in this
video you have a high probability of showing up what's next and based on that
clickability of what people are watching and how they're engaging with it you're
gonna have a higher way to lock that in where everyone that's clicking on this
video is going to recommend the next that the next video in that bucket and it can
be very powerful And it actually lifts the whole channel up, and you'll find that
any time that the views come on one video, you're going to see every video in that
bucket's going to be lifted. Why? Because it's being suggested. And so if you want
to go from a channel, from a channel that is getting browse feature,
that means that most of the traffic's come from the homepage. The best way to get
that out there as suggested is to have more videos in your buckets. So as anyone
watches a video, they're being suggested and that's going to lift up the way that
people consume your content. So let's go ahead and break it down on a lateral
bucket. Now, what a lateral bucket is, is it's going to be related around a topic.
So the topic's traveling. And in this video bucket, I try to every scene on the
most expensive fill in the blank you can do a lateral type of topic which is I
tested one star fill in the blank well this is around traveling so you can do
airlines and then you can go down through every little thing that's there but you
can see that is a way that you can have a lateral bucket around the same topic
which is traveling okay now here's the thing the lateral bucket it's a different
consumption point, right? Even though that we might go through something similar,
the difference would be is the value proposition, which is I'm seeing you go on
every seat of the most expensive airline, and then the next one is you're testing
one -star airlines. And so that is what we would consider the bucket. So you can
see right here, he released a lateral bucket. I tested one star airlines and I love
it I don't fly Ryan Air and it's Ryan Air is an airline in Europe but it's really
cool because his name's Ryan Trahan so that a lot of people say wait do you have
your own airline you know if they're not familiar with that they're basically the
United States they haven't traveled much so it's great opportunity to storytell and
so you can see that believe it or not this is a lateral bucket so it's not like
spot on where you know YouTube's going to say oh this is exactly the same type of
content we're going to try to recommend that it's going to go in another factor
which is YouTube goes down the rabbit hole but it also looks at lateral type of
content this is what this would actually show up on a suggested video that's coming
up for these other other people so like when you look at it when someone watch
both videos from the airline and also the train, this would actually be one of the
videos that YouTube would recommend because it's a lateral aligning piece of content
that would engage similar. Okay. So when we break this down, as you can see, I
went to I tested one star airlines and what comes up is number one, I try to ever
seen on the most expensive train. So this is where you can have multiple buckets.
When you have a bucket, it's a high probability it's going to rank if you do it
consistently and find that value proposition. The second thing would be, okay, when
you're testing one -star airlines and you're going from there where it's a lateral
bucket, it's still around automobiles, it's around trains, it's around airplanes,
and so you have that lateral travel, and that's something that's going to connect
that as well, and you're going to see that that actually us up. So when you look
at Ryan Trahan's content strategy, you can go to his channel and you're going to
see that he has multiple buckets. I stayed buckets. I tried buckets. I tested
buckets. One star buckets. I bought buckets. I traveled. I survived and experimental.
This is something that you can see very clearly on his YouTube channel.
And that's what we want to do is really look at the patterns and predictability of
the titles. The patterns and predictability of the Thank you.
you're going to see is when he releases videos, he doesn't go and release the same
bucket every time. He actually spaces it out, that it gives a room to breathe, and
when it has room to breathe, it has room to suggest to other video content.
However, there is a lot of lateral buckets in his content strategy, and it's very,
very smart. So that is entertainment. So your assignment today is to go to a couple
channels. Bryson has a channel on YouTube. He's actually doing the bucket system.
I don't know who's doing his content strategy, but he's like crushing it right now.
I want you to go and find what his buckets are and list them down. And then I
want you to discuss it with your accountability group. So just write it down, see
what you see, discuss it with your accountability group. I also want you to go to
Hope scope and see her buckets. Of course she's going to have buckets. Why? Because
she's a jump starter. But I want you to go ahead and look at that. And I want to
see the difference between Bryson's and Hopes. You know, it does appeal to a
different audience. You can see that it appeals to a different demographic of that
audience as well. And then lastly, I want you to look at Mr. Beast's YouTube
channel and look at his buckets. And he has done the bucket system for eight plus
years and I also want you to look at the dollar amounts the dollar amounts are
lateral ways to connect content between buckets so if I do a bucket last delete
bucket I can have a dollar amount wins the fill in the blank and the fill in the
blank is another data point that YouTube's looking at to recommend and there's a
reason why these content creators are very very effective and they're growing really
fast and the reason why is they're very consistent in bringing that content to the
viewer consistently and bringing that value proposition consistently that they go
deeper they go from a potential viewer to an active viewer from the active viewer
to a core viewer and then a hardcore viewer so that is your assignment to do that
and that is our explanation of what content strategy is and the relationship of

PT4

Hey, jump starters. We are ready to jump right in and find our first video that
we're going to produce. And this one video is going to belong to a bucket that
hopefully will bring you a lot of success. Now, when we're actually doing this,
this exercise, when we're actually going through the channel jump start system, all I
want you to do is focus in on one video, one bucket. Now, the last assignment that
I gave you was really important because I want you to start seeing YouTube
differently. I want you to start seeing channels differently and content differently.
I give you the assignment to look at Bryson's channel, what he's doing on YouTube,
and to see if you could see a pattern of consistency, a type of pattern that now
you're looking for buckets and if the video belongs to a specific bucket. And as
you're kind of diving into this channel that you're able to see is he actually had
multiple buckets and one bucket was a type of play that he's doing on the course
and it was kind of a replicatable format that what is that's what a bucket is and
that's what it's all about now i also wanted you to take a look at hope scope
because she's super smart she's a jump starter she's doing the jump starter way and
also mr beast that he's been doing buckets for well over eight years now i also
wanted you to take special note to look at mr beast's dollar amount
different journeys. Some of you are coming here because you're plateaued and want to
get to the next level. Some of you are just starting out and some of you are kind
of in between where you know you kind of have hit or misses and you want a more
consistent strategy. Well when I look at picking a bucket I look basically in a
couple ways and the first way is really looking at my own traffic.
I want to know what is actually bringing me traffic to my channel.
So when I, when I break it, going into analytics and I want to break down what
type of videos are bringing me traffic. And then two, I'm going to ask a couple
questions. The first thing would be is where's the view coming from and how much
momentum is there. So views and momentum, you're going to hear that a lot as we're
going through channel jumpstart, it's really, really important because we care about
the viewer and where views and momentum come from, that momentum is the traffic
stores and also, you know, the velocity that's happening on that video.
It's really important for us to really understand context and also understand how to
respond to that. So Coming into, I'm going to give you an example, Christina
Smallhorn, I met her through a consultation. She actually won a consultation. And
she's actually in my book, but this is like a really prime example that any niche
can actually thrive on YouTube when you actually have a strategy and you use the
bucket system. So Christina actually came on, did, you know,
a console, and I recommended to her, You know, you have two paths, you have two
videos that have momentum. One is how to clean up dog pee.
So you can go to the dog pee route. And the other one was bringing traffic, which
is modular homes. And so she decided to dig deep and do modular homes. Well, I
want to give you some context on this. This is what her channel looked like before
she actually went through the process of selecting that video. And this is August.
And you can see just it's flat. She'd release a video in a given month. She'd have
31 ,000 views. And so you can tell that once,
you know, she was averaging, you know, between 31 to 30 ,000 views. And you can see
September it was there. So that's when she actually went and saw where the views
are, where the momentum's at. Now, luckily, she didn't do dog pee videos, and she
really focused in on modular homes. But for me, when I look at a term like modular
homes, I look at what's relevant now, and I would say, well, is it modular homes?
Is it tiny homes? Tiny homes is kind of trending right now? It's something that
people are looking at to make things more affordable. Let's look at both. And So as
she was able to do it, she was breaking down a specific video that she did, and
she's looking at the specific traffic source. Because any time that you have traffic
coming on your own site, you need to look at where the traffic's actually coming
from. That gives us a lot of context. That gives us a lot of understanding of
what's happening here. So as you can see, this is her channel. And then two,
here's that one video that one video that she had mobile homes pros and cons and
you can see that it was just consistently bringing views like a lot of the views
that were coming were coming from this video so as we break it down you can see
that this is the only video on her channel that was actually being suggested so
YouTube was saying hey we found the audience for it off of other videos and so
when someone's watching this video there's a high likelihood that they're going to
see it in suggested videos so this is a good thing because what we're trying to do
is understand how YouTube operates and when we find videos that YouTube knows the
audience and recommends the audience and it's bringing views in real time that's
something we should consider as doing a bucket and the reason why if it was any
other thing if it was like search well that's more of a user's input, yes,
it's traffic, it's a little bit different, but where this is suggested videos and or
browse feature, that's when we actually have our little spidey sense go on and say,
okay, this is one we probably should consider looking going deeper on. So as she
was able to do, she actually did a video called What Are Modular Homes.
And so she's kind of doing this similar thing. She went into it. Didn't get a lot
of traction out of the gate. She only had 367 views. And you notice that this
video was getting a little steam in suggested videos. So once again,
it wasn't coming through search. It was being suggested. Well, the video that was
actually suggesting this video was her earlier video that she did on pros and cons
of modular homes. And what you're able to see was views and momentum.
So as you look at views and momentum, you're starting to see an uptick. And what
YouTube does, it takes some time to actually understand who the audience is.
But once they understand the audience, YouTube's able to grow. So what we looked at
is two performing videos. And so she actually, actually for Channel Jumpstart,
she actually made a video because she had two performing videos in her library that
was bringing suggested traffic. And this was all done through some consultation.
But when she came onto Channel Jumpstart, things started to change. And what we
looked at was, is this a bucket? Is this something that you can create? Is it
something that you can go deeper in? Is it modular homes? Is it, you know,
mini homes? And ultimately, she made that first video. And we actually call this the
test bucket or the experimental bucket. And the reason why is just because we have
a great idea for a video, doesn't mean that it should be our strategy. What we
want to do is test things because we literally test, and data tells us if it's
going to work or not, and we'll experiment, and if we can experiment and prove that
we can do it consistently, our experimental buckets turn into actual buckets.
And you'll actually get a good way to really start validating what viewers want,
and you'll start anticipating what they want, and a lot of your experimental buckets
will solidify very, very quickly. So she actually did the test. This was her
baseline before, so she had two videos that we're proper.
coming through search and 23 % of her views were coming from suggested videos well
what was those 23 % of those views well it was those two videos so we knew that
this was prime for it and you can see right here this is that the video that
she's decided to do for channel jumpstart five facts you must know when buying a
modular home okay you can see that it took a little bit of time before it took
off So YouTube, it took about 20 days, maybe 21 days for YouTube to understand who
the audience is. And what was going on at that time was YouTube was recommending it
to those other two videos. And so you actually had three videos in her library that
was recommending and people would click on it. People would click on it in different
ways. And so when you look at it, this is the result that happened.
Look at that growth. It just took off. And like she literally got more views in a
day than she would get in a month. She had 62 ,000 views in 10 days.
And it all came from browse feature. So instead of having suggested videos,
that that's when you're watching the video on the right hand side. After, you know,
after you're watching a video there's that it shows up there or underneath on mobile
it started to come up on the YouTube homepage and so she had 54 .7 % of her views
in 10 days come from browse feature and also 20 % was coming from suggested videos
and YouTube search was still decent it was at 12 .3%. But what I want to explain
is as you're looking at momentum you know YouTube people help you know what to do
and know where to engage. Now you can see right here that as you're able to see
in real time what's happening on your channel, I look at, you know, what's
consistently bringing me views, how old is the video? Is it brand new or is it a
couple years old? Is it a couple months old? And that's what I use to make the
decision of what to do there. Now, what this is done is she's got millions and
millions and millions of views on tiny homes, manufactured homes.
strategy. Now I want to give you a concept where if you have a brand new channel
and if you're looking to pivot a channel, how you would approach this. Now, this is
probably the one that some of you really need to look at. I mean, the first option
that I always do is look internally with my own YouTube videos. And then two, I
basically say, okay, that's the easiest way for me to get traffic because if I
already have the viewer, the viewer will translate into a channel. Well,
what happens if I'm looking at to go after a new viewer or a different type of
viewer? This takes some time and like, don't give me wrong, you could probably get
it out of the gaze. But I'm going to, I'm going to show you another jump starter
that went into it. He went through the recon and research assignment that I gave
you, where you create a YouTube account and you go and for very specific type of
content and this type of viewer that you're looking for well as he was going
through it he found a video that had 10 million views and this was really
interesting because it had a lot of views low subscriber and and it it was a very
very interesting idea which is a 54 minute video where he played every call of duty
game ever Okay. And so this was the inspiration of what he could create.
And he goes, man, what if I actually create that? But I do it in my own genre,
which I want to do something different than Call of Duty. So he actually played
every Spider -Man game ever. Now, here's the difference. You notice that the thumbnail
is different. You're able to see the title is pretty much the same except that fill
in the blank, which is Spider -Man. That is the bucket that we're looking for. And
ultimately, even though that this was video games, he decided to do different titles,
different IP, and you can see that even his thumbnail was differently. And the
reason why is, as he was doing some recon and research, when we're going through
thumbnails, he actually found that this is a powerful thumbnail that worked really,
really well. And I think he actually gleaned this from Mr. Who's the Boss and
thought, oh, okay, you know, when something like so massive and you show it in a
different presentation way, let's test it out. And as we looked at it, it looked
more appealing than doing it the current way that he was able to see it on the
recon and research. So that being said, he went and did that and the results did
not come immediately. In fact, It was having a hard time actually getting views and
he actually was still working a full -time job at the time and he's like, man, that
took so much to produce. I don't know if I can produce another one and he didn't
add to the bucket. Now here's my rule of thumb. When you're doing an experimental
bucket, you actually need to do at least two to three different videos in that
bucket before before you abandon the bucket. Just because the views don't come in
immediately doesn't mean that they're going to come. And so ultimately, that's one of
those things that I look at every single time. And it actually took this video four
months to find the right viewer. And it was getting trickle traffic, and this is
where traffic would come in. And he's like, oh, okay, this is a great video, but I
don't know if it's worth the effort in the time because it just took so much time
and energy and then it just popped off and this video uh was able to to take off
and so he decided to add to the bucket his second video that he did was 4 .6
million views i played every rock star game ever so when you really break it down
he had a formula that worked. I played fill in the blank ever, you know,
fill in the blank game ever, right? And and this was when you really break it
down, the first video got 2 .2 million, the next one got 4 .6 million.
Now if he would have actually had a video in between, he would even have more
views. It would have been compounding because there's other videos that was actually
suggesting. So for me, it's like when you actually do this right and you do it
very consistently where you're putting the energy and effort into the system and
trusting the system, you're going to see the results quicker. So even though that he
was a little delayed on this, it still worked out for him and he was able to go
full time as a YouTuber, which was like perfect timing for him. Now, this is where
recon and research, this is the and why I do it every day is because I want to
discover what YouTube is recommending for me as the viewer and we're getting that
very specific pattern of what we're viewing. And so using recon and research is
going to help us with ideas and take that ideation and make it our own. So as he
was able to take an idea where it was like call of duty, a new Spider man,
it's going to engage the audience that you're actually looking to develop. Now, here
is your assignment. I want you to actually look in your analytics if you have
posted videos and make a list of all your top performers in the last 90 days.
So I actually go into real -time first and I want to see real -time analytics. I
want to see, is there any videos that are actually older videos that keep on
bringing me views? I would write those videos down and then also go to your
analytics page on the overview and down, switch it to 90 days, and you're able to
see all your top videos. I would look at that list and then look at what's
bringing in real time because what's happening here is YouTube's already found the
audience. The audience is continuing to watch that content. What we need to do is
double down on that type of video content and so I would make that list and then
come up with a video or a video idea where the theme the topic is the same and
we're going to use the bucket system and then also as you write these down you're
going to actually see similar videos that you saw out doing recon and research so I
still want you to do recon and research even know that you found that, I would
actually try to go on Recon and Research and maybe search or find videos that were
around a similar vein or similar topic because you're going to start seeing it
differently. You're going to start seeing, oh, okay, here's a replicatable pattern and
there is an audience there out on YouTube and I want to see the small little
details, but also what YouTube's recommending me once I start going down that rabbit
hole. Now for newer channels, you don't have data, or if you're pivoting,
you don't have the data that you want. And so what we want to do is find topic
and themes for your viewers that they want to watch through recon and research. And
so going and creating that YouTube channel and doing recon and research around a
certain topic or theme, what I want you to do is do it the same as what Goose
did, which was find a video that looked really cool and it would be around the
same niche that you're doing and what we need to do is kind of hone in on the
topic. So as you're able to do that, I want you to write down and find different
topics and themes and select those videos. And as you're selecting those videos and
putting in super fans is going to give you a little bit of understanding of how to
really improve that. Now, as you go through your recon and research, I also want
you to select a video idea. I want you to come up with one video idea, and that
one video idea is the video that you're going to create using the channel jumpstart
system, and as you create it using the channel jumpstart system, will take you step
by step of what you need to do. So choose one video to produce, and this will
actually be your first bucket. So you're either doing it from your own momentum
that's happening on your channel, or you're looking as a new channel or a pivoting
channel, you're going on doing some recon and research. Now, I know a lot of people
would love to not use their own data and just say, hey, I want to see what's
trending out there. But I'm telling you guys, if I had momentum on any video,
I would do that first using the channel jump start system just to go through and
prove that it will work for you. and ultimately you can start looking and broadening
out because every time that we create a bucket, it's going to be an experimental
bucket until we prove it out. And then that's what we need to do. We always need
to be able to prove out buckets. And then two, some buckets will kind of be pushed
aside as new buckets coming on. And that way we stay relevant with the current
viewer. So this assignment, I want you to choose one video to produce. This will be
your first bucket. And what you'll want to do as well is as you start selecting
your videos that you're going to produce and your bucket, discuss it with your
accountability group. Because when you start talking about this, people give you
insight and clarity on some of the things that they're seeing through what they're
learning. And, you know, that's how we make it better. All right. So go ahead and
do those assignments and we'll see you on the next one.

PT 5

system that I'm going to teach you today will unleash your creativity if you're
willing to try. Are you willing to try? Now, I can tell you, over the last 20
years, all the different projects that I've been on from these huge projects, these
big commercial projects, to YouTube ideas, to YouTube video ideas, I've gone through
this system that I'm going to teach you to really select really good ideas, to
become better ideas, to become amazing ideas, to become clickable ideas, then to
become shareable ideas. Now, if you wanna learn it, let me show you how to do it.
All right, you guys ready to go? I'll tell you what, I love this part. I really
do, I love brainstorming, I love seeing what's working, and it's gonna get really,
really exciting, and I'm gonna help you step by step go through this process for
your channel, and the first thing we need to do is look below this video, and
there's an icon for another Google Doc. Now this Google Doc is exclusively for video
ideas. Now this is going to be your moneymaker. This is going to be a gold mine
and you can actually do so much with this once we have it organized because it's
going to spur on more ideas and more ideas and more ideas. And this is what I
love. So the first thing we need to do is go ahead and click on that icon. It's
going to open up the Google Docs here and you notice that we need to do one thing
now this is a template you can't it's in view only mode so you actually have to
make a copy and to make a copy we come up to the file down to make a copy and
then what we want to do is you know give it some context because this is actually
going to save on your Google account I'm going to say street food because that is
the niche of the channel that I'm creating here we'll go ahead and hit okay now
once that's done that's actually saving a Google sheet on your Google account like
it did here for my account and we're almost ready to get going now what we want
to do is really start brainstorming on the type of content that we're gonna actually
create you've already done so much work you've watched a lot of videos and you've
gone through the process of really identifying what's working on other channels and
you saw some top performing videos. Now, what we were able to do is look at the
data. We analyzed and saw the patterns and we made a really good decision on a
bucket idea, which was in my case, street foods. And more importantly,
you know, strange street foods and strange street foods in fill in the blank now so
that's kind of going to be the basis of our bucket idea now what we're going to
do is start digging deep in ideas to create content now one of the things you can
do in the beginning of this is to actually go through your list that you actually
have in your recon and research phase and start putting the data here.
Now, you can copy and paste or whatever you need to, but what we want to do is
to make sure that everything that's actually being recorded here is only for this
one bucket. We'll add multiple buckets, but I want to take you through this exercise
for one bucket, and I'm going to show you how I actually do it differently than
just looking on those top performing channels, because what we need to do is start
making it more our own and more unique. So you guys ready to do that? Okay, so
the first thing we need to do is open up a new tab and what we want to do is
start typing in Google our bucket ideas. So I'm going to go ahead and it would be
strange street food in fill in the blank. Now, right now we have China.
China is a place for strange food and I thought, hey, you know, I'm going to
China. This would actually be a good opportunity to come up some video ideas. Now
the first thing I look at is look at what Google does here.
massive spiders. Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to select these words
here and I'm going to start putting in some title ideas. Now, this right here is
something that I like to paste without, just with here, so we're not adding anything
in there. Like, we're not throwing HTML in there. So I usually just paste with
error. There's a key command for that as well, but I just wanted to show you what
I was able to do. But there's an idea. Okay, so this is a title idea for a
bucket name. So what we're able to do here is bring in the variable.
The variable will always be your title idea. So deep fried massive spiders would be
one of those things that we'd want to do. Now, that being said, we also have a
place here for optimized title. I'm going to show you how to do that in a minute
once we get, you know, about five or six of these to go, and, you know, you're
going to create a massive list. But basically going down,
so we have battered and deep fried crab. That's not as interesting. Duckheads. Okay,
there we go. That would be one I'd want to do there too because it's all about
the extreme food for me, and it's about the strange things that people are actually
consuming in street food. Okay. So let's go ahead, and we're going to paste that in
here again and then move to the next one, which would be chicks.
That's not as clickable that I'm thinking. Seahorses. Okay, come on, guys. You're
going to eat a seahorse? Okay, I'd watch that actually. I mean, come on. You have
a seahorse on a stick. Look at this thing. Okay, so here we're going, and I'm
going to paste that back in, and we are good to go. Now, we're getting some great
ideas here. And once we're able to show you how to actually optimize the title, you
guys are going to go to town on this. So let's go ahead and get about four more
different ideas just so that you guys have a really, really good idea. Oh,
Scorpions, that is like off the charts. Like, that would be really cool. Notice that
I'm not really, like, I'm just getting some ideas. And I know that yours might be
a little bit different than mine. And I didn't do this by choice. I actually just
thought, hey, I'm interested in travel. I'm interested in food. We have our niche,
which is street food. And I'm like, hey, I notice there's a pattern between all
this that the bizarre or strange or exotic food was the ones that was actually
getting the most views. And so this is what I was able to do. And so we're really
not even doing much. I mean, we're just going off of someone that's already
collected the data there. and it has some pretty amazing pictures. I kind of hit
that pretty much they only had seven. I didn't use all seven. Let me go here to
the next way that I actually look. And it is through Google Images.
And the reason why is I want to see what's grabbing my attention. I want to see
what's there that pulls me in just off the photo. Because remember, we're going to
need to do photos for this. Once we have that title down, we're going to need to
see what types of photos that we're going to do to really pull in our viewer.
Okay, so for me going through this, this starfish looks really, really interesting.
I know we had one, but that right there grabbed my attention because I didn't know
that people would actually eat stuff like this. I didn't even know you could eat
stuff like this. So let's go ahead and click on that. And you can see right here,
weird stuff. So we have,
okay, was that clickbait it that was clickbait like look they had it there but no
there's nothing that I see starfish on here okay but that's okay I'm going to put
starfish down because I saw it and I grabbed my attention you know starfish okay so
that's what we have let's go ahead and go back and see what other things that are
grabbing my attention and remember in that exercise that we were actually going
through and I was showing you all the different thumbnails that were working really
well.
We've done a pretty good job, and ultimately, is that more seahorses?
Look at that. That's more seahorses. Man, okay, this is a really interesting thing.
Look at the chickens. Is it a goose? Let's see what it is. Extreme Chinese street
food. Let's go to that. I don't even know what that is. And so, oh, it's a video.
Look at that. Hey, it's our Food Ranger guy. It's like one of the guys that we're
actually following that grabbed my attention. Did you see that? That's a really,
really good thumbnail. And I really, really like it, but it's like, it's giving a
tour of the town, which is fine, but that's a really, really good thumbnail. I
grabbed my attention. Anything else? Okay, so now that we're there, now there's a
couple things that we actually need to take into context. Sometimes we need to
alternate some words. Now, I'm going to give you an exercise here in a little bit
of what we can actually look at when the YouTube AI is looking at our title, but
we're not there yet. So I'm gonna go ahead and just change that out to weird. And
you notice that we're getting pretty much the same results, except look at that
spider. Oh my gosh, that right there is an amazing thumbnail. I gotta get something
like that. So I'm gonna put big, massive deep fried spiders. So we already have
that for the first one. but that's a dang good thumbnail i'm going to keep that
open uh where did that go i'm going to keep this open because that was so so good
okay so as we're going down is there anything else that grabs my attention um this
is weird i we already had scorpions on there
is that worms yeah Yeah,
all right, we're going to put worms on there because that'll get the clicks. I
mean, think about it, how many people are emotionally, okay, we're going to go put
worms on there. Okay, so that right there is the key, is what emotionally is your
viewer going to react to? And, you know, we saw the thumbnails, we saw the images,
and now we're coming up with the ideas that we need to do. Now, we have some
great ideas and ultimately we have, we got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven
ideas that we can start brainstorming on. Now, here's the thing. Ultimately,
you can do this exercise. This is something I do religiously of really looking at
specific niches and then really identifying what that content bucket is and then
start narrowing down on video ideas. Now, I think all these are going to be
bangers. Like I seriously, when I say they're going to be clickable if I do the
thumbnail right. They're going to be engaging and clickable if I do the title right.
But more importantly, if I do the video right, it's going to be shareable and
that's what's actually going to trigger the algorithm. Now, when I go into creating
this, we're going to go back to the Google Doc. You're able to see here the bucket
name. We're going to go ahead and put everyone in the bucket name because these are
strange foods. And we're going to go ahead and paste that in. And what we want to
do is start tying the data together. Okay. And this is where we want to have a
couple key rules. Number one, this is going to really set a lot of people off, but
I want you to be under 60 characters on your title. I know that some of you want
to use all 100 characters every single time, I like to keep buying right around 55
characters because that's all that people on mobile can see. And mobile's like pretty
much 80 % of all YouTube views. So why would you want to do it any other way? And
if it's just for keyword stuffing, like let's get away from that. Like that's not
something that's going to help us. I know when we were doing some research for this
channel here that there was a lot of people that was actually keyword stuffing their
titles. I noticed that as a pattern as well. And I didn't want to do that because
they're trying to get little search traffic here, a little search traffic there. What
I want to do is be very tactical and actually get the traffic that we want, which
is suggestion. And the best way to get suggested traffic is to make it for a human
to read. And when you see the tool that I'm going to show you here coming next,
you're going to want to do it this way because YouTube will start filtering out
spam. And if you have spam I'm here to tell you, they're going to come after you.
So here we go. I want to keep it between 55 and 60 characters, but for me, I
want to keep it at 55. Notice that when we start typing in, we have that character
count that's right there for you, and it will kind of help gauge and let you know
where you're going to be at. So what I want to do is where it's deep fried
spiders. That's actually a pretty good title.
So I'm going to go ahead and put that in. And we could do dash strange street
foods in China. That's a pretty good thing. So let's see where we're at character
-wise. So we're at 58. So what we're going to do is make a couple more rows
because I want to start really brainstorming on the different titles to actually
bring this in. And for me, like this would be an okay title. It's like deep,
fried, massive spiders, strange street foods in China, or we could flip it around,
like maybe one of our variations will be strange street foods in China,
eating
deep fried massive spiders. Okay. Now, once again,
I think I'm going to take the word massive because um you know we're more in line
like 56 we're really really close so i'm going to go ahead and i'm going to do
another variation which is um let's go ahead and put eating deep fried spiders in
china so we're we're close i mean we're at 56 characters i'd probably let that that
swing a little bit um out of all of them, which one would you choose? Would you
actually choose this one? Deep fried spiders dash strange street foods in China.
Would we do strange street foods in China eating deep fried spiders or eating deep
fried spiders strange street foods? Okay. Now, I want to do this.
I want to be able to copy and let's go ahead and do another one down here just
because just because I have a little issue with this title so far.
Okay, so the next step I'm going to do is actually search for it in Google and
also YouTube. I want to see what's actually coming up. So let's go ahead and go to
Google. I'm going to go open a new tab because we have tabs open. That's what we
do. So let's go ahead and go to Google and we are going to paste this in.
And what do we have? Okay, so we have 20 food options in China,
no money, serious food. So that actually comes up one of our search results.
Incredible. You never guess what people eat in China. That actually could be an
amazing title.
Like, I, you know, I like that a lot. So you see here,
I'm going to come back here. We're going to add some more things down below, and
we'll go ahead and paste that in. Oh, let's go ahead and paste that in the right
way. Okay, so now once we're here, basically we want to see what's going to be
something that we can connect with his bucket, but let's keep on looking. I want to
see what else comes up.
Strange, seriously strange street foods in China. You know, that I like the word
seriously. We know we had the word massive there, but this is still.
Is there any other thing that kind of grabs my attention, weird foods,
you know, strange, weird. I think it's the same thing, and I'll show you why it is
the same in a second. But basically, what does a spider taste like?
Okay, someone actually did a video on that. So let's click on that. Yeah,
I'm not necessarily liking this. rare street foods let's see that's not the one we
clicked on is this one right here Pizza Hut in China it's weird okay so a little
clickbait it looks like on that one
let's see here let's just click on it make sure I didn't do that no no no this
is good okay so we have someone that's just starting a channel just uploaded it
they didn't start it as in 2016 But this one's just not performing.
And I don't know what's going on here. So going back, you know, I do like that.
You know, what does a spider taste like? But it's not necessarily in our jam. You
know, our jam is basically, hey, street foods, and we're showing the strange street
foods in a specific place, you know, and I don't know. I like the word bizarre
too. But other than that, I think we're looking pretty good on this. So,
you know, I'm not seeing anything that just jumps out. Now let's go to the video
results to see if there's anything there that we see. Chinese street food, 20 weird
things eating scorpions in China. Like, none of these were really jumping out. But I
do like our list that we actually have here. I do really like the list. So we
have deep fried massive spiders, strange street foods in China, eating deep fried
spiders, eating deep fried spiders in China, strange street foods. Ultimately,
I actually like this one, seriously strained street food in China because it keeps
our bucket street foods in China. Okay, that's our bucket. And we have seriously
strange street foods. And whether we do a listical type of video, like five things
or 10 weird things that we're showing that, that would be a great way.
street foods in China,
why
am I eating a spider?
Sorry, my laptop's a little bit further away than when I normally type. Okay, so
let's go ahead and do that. That's 65 characters now. Remember, we want to stay
under 60 characters. What can we do to make this work even better. So I'm going to
come here and we're going to go below. And ultimately, what I want to do is spend
the next five minutes refining this. And so basically what I'm going to do is try
to refine this process of coming up with a good title. And then we'll move on to
the next one.
All right, so I just spent a few minutes really brainstorming on ideas.
And you were able to see the way that I was brainstorming ideas. I was using
Google, I was using images, I was using YouTube, and ultimately I wanted to really
make these titles a little bit better. I did not get distracted by anything else. I
was just focusing in on the video at hand. Now, you can see that I have deep
fried massive spiders, strange street foods in China, and you've seen all the list
up to here. Now, this is where it got a little interesting. I thought, you know
what? Spiders on a stick was interesting. It's going to be the thumbnail. I can
guarantee you it's going to be the thumbnail. And for me, that is
Is he going to eat the spider on the stick? I know that there's a spider on the
stick, but is he going to actually eat it? I have a sense of curiosity. And then
ultimately, you know, we needed to have a reinforcing statement, which is keeping our
bucket idea together. Because we always have to keep those bucket terms together,
which is street foods. We have strange. And then we have street foods in China. So
this is the winner. And what I want to do now is highlight this. Now, one mistake
that a lot of people make is they start deleting all their different ideas. And I
do not want you to do it. I always want you to keep the ideas. What I want you
to do is highlight the ones that you like. There might be two or three of them in
a brainstorming session that you might like. You want to keep those because that's
going to help you with other video ideas. You might, you know, once you're able to
see it, I kind of read down through it. And I'm like, I'm going to go ahead and
do duckheads. And I can go through the same process, and I'm like, hey, this is
going to connect. This is not. This is going to be more engaging. Oh, I like this
idea that I came up with like a month ago or a couple weeks ago or right now.
And ultimately, it's coming from all those ideas you've already accumulated. Now, I
can tell you by doing this process consistently, it's going to open up your creative
juices. And it's going to make you be a really creative person because what you're
thinking now is not, oh, I've got to do a title because I just uploaded my video.
No, you're thinking, I didn't even pick up the camera and I know what the title's
going to be or I have a high probability of what the title's going to be because
I have a really good idea and I've gone through the process to refine it. And
ultimately it's something that I would want to click on. And that's what where this
brainstorming session is. Now, once we have this, we need to go through thumbnail
ideas. Now, this This is where your recon and research face is. We actually be able
to identify the types of thumbnails that work. Now, if you remember for the
thumbnails that work for this channel, ultimately it's just giant food or in your
face thumbnails. And that's something we need to do. So like for me, I'm gonna go
ahead and copy the winner here. And I'm not gonna do street foods, but I'm gonna
put eating spiders on a stick. We Oh, it looks like we already searched that.
So let's go ahead and go here. For me, it's about spiders on a stick, and I'm not
seeing that. Maybe we need to do in China.
Okay, so this one right here is the winner. I love this one. It's even better than
this one. I know this is engaging. If I want my face in it, yeah, maybe I'm over
in the one corner there and holding up the spider. But from the model that we know
that works, like we already looked at all the data that's out there. The top
performing videos in street foods is when it's in your face. And this is massively
in your face. I wouldn't even add any words. I wouldn't even add anything because
it's pretty well explanatory. It's a spider on a stick. I mean,
that's where it's at. So what do I do? Well, what I want to do is start saving
these photos that are dealing with the thumbnail and the thumbnail idea. And
basically, I want to create it in a document when I go to create the video. I'm
like, hey, what type of thumbnails I'm going to do? I can't remember. And I can
see all the thumbnail ideas. I'm like, oh, yeah, that was really good. That was
already good. Because you already did the work and you already know what your
title's going to be. And that takes you one step closer to really be successful
here on YouTube. Okay, so here is the assignment for you. I want you to go ahead
and download that Google sheet. And also, I want you to do the process that I did,
but for your niche. And two, what I need you to do is don't, you know, misplace
that workbook. That workbook for the patterns and brainstorming, we're going to still
use that. But really refer to that as you're starting to pull a little bit more
deeper understanding of the type of video content that you're going to create. And
My thing is this, I spent hours on creating video ideas over a specific bucket.
You just saw in one setting. Like, I would literally spend maybe an hour or two
really defining the types of videos that I was able to have. I'd go through. I did
it for spiders. Well, I want to do duckheads next. Like, that's something that I'd
do. And I'd keep on nailing those down until I had all those video ideas. And once
I have the video ideas, I basically have some titles that we're able to share, and
I'll talk about the accountability later on in a couple videos, and this will help
you really test the idea out with like -minded creators, the right type of creators.
But ultimately, I want you to do these exercises so you're not wasting people's
time, you're doing it the right way, and you're not wasting the time for you as
you're producing content because you already know what the title is going to be, you
already know what the thumbnail's going to be, you're going to just refine it before
you actually release the content and that's coming up here soon.

PT 6

Hey, Jumpstarters, ready to jump right in and start brainstorming for thumbnail ideas.
Now, I am really excited about this one, and I know a lot of you watching the
last video were really concerned because we actually went through a lot of title
ideas and video ideas and I showed you briefly how to look for some video ideas
when you're looking for some title ideas and you're probably thinking wait I can't
do that for my you know my niche and like I don't see anything on Google that's
that appealing well guess what guys in this video right here this training video I'm
going to show you the process to brainstorm the right way that you can come up
with any idea for any video idea that you actually have and make it clickable Now,
the first thing I want to let you know that it all starts with the click. I'm
telling you all the success that you're wanting, especially on YouTube, it all starts
with getting people's attention and curiosity that they're intrigued by what your
title and your thumbnail is and ultimately getting that click. Now,
we'll get to the video portion of a little bit later because the video portion will
make it We'll get the people to share and also the algorithm to share, but
ultimately it all starts right here. Now, I have been obsessed with thumbnails
because that is the messaging that will get that click to happen. And if we have
good content, then it triggers all the stuff that we want. And I spend so much
time just researching, seeing what works, what doesn't work. And my wife gets
frustrated with me because when we just kind of sit down and relax. I'm going
through Netflix and I'm just going through the thumbnails, man. I don't even watch.
I don't even watch the movies. I'm like going through the thumbnails and I like to
see how they vary. And I even create different Netflix accounts and,
you know, have some interests that are more female driven or older millennials or
Gen Z. And I like to see how the thumbnails change because it does change per the
demographic. It's just amazing I think Netflix has some of the most amazing
technology to actually give you dynamic thumbnails based off of your demographic well
and I've said about that we could geek out about that a little bit later but what
we're gonna do is go through the process to help you really succeed and it has
everything to do with making sure that your clickable title actually has content that
will enhance that title now what I do is take a three by five blank card,
and I tried to depict what the thumbnail is going to look like with some crude
sketches, okay? Now, before we do this, I actually gave you a workbook on the
patterns and brainstorming. You can pull that out, go to the section for thumbnails,
and there's a place that you're able to do what I'm doing here right now. Now, the
first thing I can tell you, I put in the title. Now, I'm not going to do the
spiders title because we already did that, and we are able to find some really good
thumbnails that would really engage what we wanted to do. So what we're going to do
is use an example from Mr. Beast. He has a video here and it will be going
through the same drive -through a thousand times. Now, for me, I want to brainstorm.
And so for me, like, how do we actually explain what's going on without words in
that thumbnail? Now, you do not need to be an amazing artist. You just need to be
able to sketch some things and be able to see, okay, this is the type of
perspective I'd like to take a couple pictures. For me, if it's going through a
drive -thru, like, how do you explain going through the drive -thru a thousand times?
How do you do that in a thumbnail? Well, I see Mr. Beast in the drive -thru
getting basically another order, and maybe he's like gone through it a lot and he's
super, super exhausted, and you can start seeing all the orders pile up. And he's
just like, oh, I'm so tired, you know. And, and, and then also you have the happy,
uh, employee handing him the next order. And it just gets higher and higher. And
maybe it's like, he's like barely even seeing over the stuff. And so for me, it's
like, let's come up with some ideas that we're able to design. That's what I'm
going to actually do and kind of go through it. Now, in this exercise, we're going
to get to your assignment, but I want to show you the process that I would go
through because, you know what, I might not necessarily be satisfied with that
thumbnail idea. And we could do this over and over and over again. And it doesn't
take very, very long to do it. Now, you can go on Google and search and see if
there's something out there. But in this case, there wasn't really anything out
there. And so we had to think what was actually going on, going to go on in the
video because of what we're saying in the title, we can say, oh, thousand times,
he's going through the drive -through a thousand times, so that would actually have
exhaustion. Now, here's an important note, guys. When you create a motion in the
thumbnail, that makes it more clickable. It makes it more intriguing, okay?
Keep that in mind. So we want to show exhaustion. We want to show the orders, and
we want to be able to do that in a certain way. And so ultimately, this is the
idea that we came up.
from the beginning because if it doesn't necessarily do what we want it to do, then
we need to come up with more ideas. And I would actually go through multiple ideas
and making sure we have multiple thumbnails because maybe we want to split test a
little bit later. The first question in the audit is, does it accurately portray the
video content? Next question would be, does it get the audience excited or intrigued?
And the final question, would you actually click on that thumbnail. Now, if you're
able to really say, hey, this is a good thumbs up. We're ready to go. Then you're
ready to go. Now, before we do this, maybe we need to come up with another
concept. Maybe we need to come up with three concepts. You know, this is what we're
able to do is this is the brainstorming phase because when we're actually preparing
before the shoot, then we actually have options. And options are key, especially
later in the channel jumpstart when we actually start doing analyzing and adjusting,
that's the true key to really success, to seeing what actually works on your
content. You know what people want to click. And it's not necessarily sometimes what
you believe. I want to give you a quick example. I do thumbnail testing and I've
been doing it for a very, very long time. And I can tell you before YouTube
actually gave us the click through data, we would actually buy ads just so that we
have the click -through data. We wanted to know how many people would actually see
it and click on it and see that percentage. And we would do it on Facebook, we
would do it on YouTube and so on, because ultimately we needed to make sure that
thumbnail actually worked and the title actually worked. Now, we have the tools now
as creators that we can see that click -through data and we can see it from traffic
sources, which is really important. And in later sections in Channel Jumpstart, We're
going to really talk about how to analyze your channel, how to really digest it in
a way to know if we need to tweak it. And so I would rather come up with more
ideas here in the brainstorming phase. So when we actually go to production, we can
actually take those pictures that we need to make our video better. So come up with
two or three different ideas, but I want to show you what we were able to do go
through the process here. So the ideas, what we would need to do to really pull
this photo off, to get that thumbnail to pull
And we need to do that visually, kind of what we have here in our thumbnail. So
on production, you can see we've taken two different pictures. And then ultimately,
it's basically we have a couple of things that is not working for us. And so we're
able to actually cut that out. And you can see we can add it in. And we can even
add in some numbers. And that's how effective. And once you go through the thumbnail
audit, you're able to see, hey, does this thumbnail exactly do what we want it to
do? Well, it sure does. Now, here's the thing. I'm not having you design all these
things up. I wanted to show you the process of what it can look like when you
actually prepare before the shoot, because that's what happened here. He definitely
prepared before the shoot. He was able to go through the process of what the photos
that he would need to actually do a couple options, and that wasn't the only one.
I want to show you a couple things here. And it's like, does this actually work?
And we'll actually go more in depth in further trainings. But I want to show you
the results of just doing a screenshot versus one that you actually planned out and
designed. Now, here are two different options. And my question to you is, which one
would you actually click on? Let's see them in mobile. Which one would you click
on? A or B? A or B. Well,
I can tell you right now, I would click on A. And the reason why, it just grabs
my attention. It really reinforces that title. I'm really intrigued by it.
And I have some curiosity. And that's where I go to click. Okay, jump starters,
it's time for your assignment. Your assignment is to go through this workbook and
come up with thumbnail ideas for the video ideas that you actually have titles for.
And what I want you to do is have two or three variations. And they could be
slight variations, but I want you to be able to think, how would I do this a
little bit differently and really explain it without words and have that really
accurately portray what are titles about? So this is going to take a little bit of
time. This is a new skill that you need to develop, but this is the most important
thing to properly prepare to get your content to really perform because remember, it
all starts with a click. So make sure you go through all the different thumbnail
ideas that you actually have video ideas for. This is something we're going to do
because we can actually go through the process in production and do it in mass. And
ultimately, when you have all these ideas down, guess what we're going to do next,
we're going to talk about accountability and a way that you can actually test your
thumbnail ideas. You can also test your video ideas with those titles, and you can
do it right here in Channel Jumpstar in a group. And we'll see you on the next
video.

PT7

So I'm going to teach you how I went from a thousand monthly views to 38 million.
And I know a lot of people here might have not started their channel yet. So I
want to show you what I started with. This is my first setup. If you cannot see
it, let me describe it for you. I have a $200 computer that my grandpa bought me.
I told him he was a little bit old and he wasn't happy about it, by the way. $10
chair and I was very deprived of sleep. I don't know if you can see that. But
that is to show you that anybody in this room can do it. I don't care what you're
doing. Whatever you have, you can do this. So, this was my first ever video.
This might be the worst retention you'll ever see in your life. It had 2 .8 % and
500 views. The graph is so bad, I feel bad about showing it to you all.
The thumbnail was dreadful, and this is one of my latest ones. I know the retention
is not perfect, we're getting better, but it was 60%. The graph is actually very
decent, and it goes 1 .1 million views. So I want to share how you can get there.
I actually think today I'm going to do my best to help you guys get there. So
what was I doing wrong? You may ask yourself, right, like How can you get 500
views the years ago, and today you're getting a million? I want to be there. Well,
let me teach you. First of all, back in the day, my focusing strategy was mainly
in increasing my monthly views. And uploading as many times as I could. I know a
lot of you are doing the same. The result, I was uploading six videos a week. A
lot of people may say, whoa, that's great. Well, no, I wasn't innovating. I was not
analyzing anything. My thumbnails were not great. I'm going to teach you how to make
them great.
them and there was too much text. I don't know if you guys can see that thumbnail
properly. I'm going to describe it. There is not a single face, there is a lot of
text and I don't think anybody here can understand what's happening. So when I was
planning my videos, I was just knowing the idea and executing them. A lot of you
might see this and kind of think, oh, I'm doing that. Well, that's wrong because
your video will have this retention, which is 29%. I didn't want to show that 2 .9
again, because I thought it was very depressing. So, yeah, you got 700 views, and
people go bored very quickly. I don't know if everybody understands what retention
is. Can you raise your hand if you know what retention means? Oh, wow, everybody
does. Okay, perfect then. And then I met Darrell. This is not an ad for Darrell,
by the way, but I generally read his book. And after I read his book, I took a
break. That was a year ago, actually. And he got, that video got 21 ,000 views.
I was very gasped about that. It was actually my best video where I was taking a
break. And you can see my face. I was very, yeah, sad, I guess. I did go on to,
after the break, have a lot of different things that I was doing. And that's what
I want to talk to about today. First of all, I finally had a clear goal. I wanted
to become the biggest football creator the world had ever seen. Before, I don't even
know if you guys heard, but I had no goal. There was nothing. I was just uploading
to upload. The difference? Well, I was uploading 27 times in a month.
You know how crazy that is? How many times you guys upload? Who uploads more than
10 times? Raise your hand.
See, three people. I was uploading 27, bro. And I was getting half a million views,
which is great, and everything I was doing before got me to half a million views.
So there is merit in it, clearly. I did my break, I uploaded less. The break
lasted a day, by the way. I don't know if, yeah, it wasn't clearly a break, but
let's say it was a break, thank you. I did get 300 ,000 views after that.
And a lot of you may see this, and you'll be like, yeah, he's doing bad, and
you'll quit. well, this is what happened three months later. I had my best day
ever, where I got actually a million views in June, before I was getting half a
million. Three months after I took my break and after I started changing the way I
looked at videos, this is what happened. And this is that 16 months later. So,
yeah, it looks like nothing. So for any of you right now that are on the spot,
we're uploading a lot, even if you change things and you go down in views, you
will go up if you do what I'm telling you now. So, how do you become the biggest?
Because that was my goal, right? Become the biggest football career of the world has
ever seen. Well, you need to make the best videos possible. You have heard this
from Mr. Beast a lot of times, and I want to break it down. First, you need to
make people click. Simple. Then you need to make people watch it. But something that
nobody is talking about, or I don't listen anybody talking about. It's getting people
to return. Like you need to make people return to your video. You cannot just make
a video, make it great, but then inside delivered improperly and then nobody comes
back. You're basically having to acquire customers, in this case, viewers, every
single video. No, if you make them return, you build a fan base. So, the click.
Let's talk about that one first. You need a great video idea, a great thumbnail,
and a great title. How do you have a great idea? Well, I personally brainstorm
daily. I've heard Ryan, Treyhead, and Mr. Bees do the same. If you want an easy,
quick tip on how to brainstorm, I think I actually say this later to worry. I'm
going to go to that. But make sure your ideas are interesting. And the easiest way
to have an insane idea is to recreate one that's proven. This is the most simplest.
If there is one thing that I want everybody in this chat to understand,
That's crazy. So I said, what about I recreated? And I made a video called I spent
$1 ,000 beating FIFA. I'm going to break down why I think that actually does really
good.
But these are the simple steps. I think I actually went through them. You first
find a niche. So say, for example, I am in FIFA, which is football gaming. Sorry,
soccer. I'm in America. It's soccer. I hate to say it. I hope nobody recorded me
saying that. If you did, please delete it right now. Thank you. But you need to
make sure you find a niche. In my case, I just look for different niches, like
Madden, NBA, anything like that. Oh, that helps a lot. Jesus. Oh,
I should have done that since the beginning. My bad. For the ones in the back. If
you couldn't hear, sorry. Now, second thing, you need to get a highly viewed I
understand why it performed well. I see so many people grabbing an idea and
thinking, oh, they'll perform well, let's do it. Get, understand why. If you
understand why the idea did well, you can then apply to your niche, and then make
sure that you recurated. So, this is what it looked like for me on a different
perspective. Research. I did my research on a channel called W2S. He was getting 20
million views on FIFA. You know how crazy that is. That's like Mr. Bees level four
years ago. That's mad. And when I did my research on a topic called Toti, which is
like a team of the year, I don't want to get nerdy because I know nobody
understands what it. Do you understand what Totty is? Again, raise your hand. Oh,
really? Jesus. Okay, that's a lot of narrates here. Good. Shout out to you guys.
Well, it means team of the year. It's the most important promotion in the game. You
get a lot of views when you do it. So I researched Toti. It was a great topic.
And I found a twist to it. I wasn't going to recreate what he did which is like
packing the tote which is like something
of getting the packs, I just bought the cards. So it was a little twist to it. I
understood why it works, because it's a very popular idea, and I applied my own
twist to it. You can all do that on your own niches. If you find an idea that
gets a lot of views, you add a twist to it, and it works. So, titles. We're
talking about ideas, which is kind of like the most important part. But when it
comes to make a title, I think the easiest way to make a title is to describe
what the video is in the most simplistic way possible. First, and then make sure
that it's very widely appealing. So, what does a great title? By the way, I sat on
the back before, and I know you cannot read any of this, and I am so sorry to
all of you on the back, but I'm going to describe it for you. On the left, we
have a great title. It's in my eyes, widely appealing because I spent $1 ,000
beating FIFA. I think everybody can understand. Like how many people here understand
what a thousand dollars is? Again, raise your hand. I like to do this. There you
go. So a lot of people know what it means. Then beating, you understand you win.
Like when you beat something, you win. So anybody can understand that. The only
thing that limits that title is FIFA because not everybody knows what FIFA is. So I
spend a thousand dollars within FIFA is a great title because everybody reading it
can possibly understand it. On the other side, my bad titles back in the day were
the German hool -it. I know nobody understands that. FIFA people don't understand
that. Nobody understands that. And so it's very bad. Again, a title worked with your
thumb. That's like high -level stuff, but basically a title should complement your
thumbnail. And, yeah, the thumbnail and the title do not work at all on the right
side. It's very confusing and you will not get it. So now that you get what a
good title looks like let me tell you what a good thumbnail should look like it
needs to catch it needs to catch your attention show the video idea in the most
simplistic way possible and needs to be very easy to understand i think this is
what makes ryan trade hand videos so good because you literally see it and you get
the idea of the video in like seconds so how did i apply that to myself well in
the video i spent a thousand dollars dollars within FIFA, I got 3 .8 million views
in three months, because you can see my face. I have a very happy expression.
People like to see happy people, at least in my niche. And then on the left side
of me, is that, do you count that as the left? Okay, maybe the right side to you.
Okay, on my, you know the bronze car that has a zero over it? Well, that shows
that bronze to most people means bad. So you understand, okay, that's bad, you see
zero dollars above it. That means that there is a progression because on the right
side of me, there is a thousand. And underneath, there is the card that I showed
you about before, which is the tauti card, which is a really good card. So people
understand that you went from bad to good. And then when they read the title and
they see, I spend $1 ,000 meeting FIFA, they are like, ah, I get it. So he's going
to go from bad to good. And I actually want to click on the video to see what
that looks like inside. Another thing that I think this thumbnail achieves is on my
background, in the past I used to be so bad, decided my background, on my
background you can see grass. I play football. In football, grass is dominant. It
would be weird if I put the sky behind me, because I'll be having to stand to
show the sky. So it looks very natural because I'm on the grass with two cards
next to me. So I think that all adds up to make a great thumbnail. Then on the
right side, Jesus Christ, it's so bad. Okay, where do I start? Where not to start?
Look, my face, what am I doing? You cannot even see my eyes. There is no
optimization whatsoever. I'm so sorry if you have to see that. Jesus.
Now we've got 6 .5K views because so many of you are seeing it. Behind me, there
is like a white thing that you put on kitchens. I don't know about you, but
football's not played on the kitchen. So nobody understands that. Nobody. And then
there is a card that's like blurred and there is an arrow. So even though I was
actually following good principles, like it's my face, there is a car next to me.
There is a lot of things going wrong. The car that I chose was wrong. The thing
behind me, the background, is very wrong. and there is no context between the title
and the thumbnail. So, retention. I know a lot of you will have trouble with this,
and to be honest, I also have problems with retention. I'm not the greatest, but
I'm going to break down the most simplistic way anybody here can go today home and
improve their videos. It's the intro. If you can show people what they clicked for
as soon as the video starts, you can be simple and quick, you will get so many
more views you don't even get it. If after this, you start focusing more on your
thumbnails and your intros, you will 100 % become a better YouTuber. So if there is
one thing you take out of this, please be to work on your intros. Make them more
simple and make them more quick. Wow, I am supposed to play my intro and I don't
know how this would work. Is there a way? Can any from the team? Is it possible
to actually play my intro guys or okay nobody
Basically, my old intros had no energy. In that video, if you play it, you see
that nothing changes. You see that. That's 11 seconds of that screen. You know how
bad that is? Somebody clicks on that, and I'm telling them to leave. That's the
video that got 2 .8 % retention. There is no face. There is nothing. There is three
cards, no movement. And my voice goes something like this. Today, we are going to
be... Okay, what am I doing? Looking at the best Super subs.
Terrible. Nobody clicks on that. And, well, this was the graph. It was, for the
ones in the back, I was bait. For the, for the ones in the back, it looks like I
was telling people to leave the video. My intro was, it was basically me saying,
like, please leave now. Don't watch this. Like, what are you doing? It got 1 .7K
views, though, you know? whatever 4 .30 % retention I guess and then this one can
you play it too and I will do my best job at recreated it I got every card I
can't do this but basically I was very excited on this one and I showed so much
stuff 11 seconds went by and there is like so many things going on so many cars I
can get better actually slowing things down but just doing this making sure that I
won share the idea of the video in the most simplistic way possible, which you guys
will have to spend a lot of time sitting down and coming up with how you can
actually make that happen. It's what got me this one to be my best intro.
Oh my God, I didn't mean that. Okay. Is what got this video to be one of my best
intros? He got 82 % abuse after 30 seconds, which is really good for me.
The little dip after it, it's an ad. I'm very bad at integrating ads and I need
to get better at it. Maybe next year, if a lot of you want me to come back, I
would teach you how to make better ads. But not today, I guess. And yeah, not
today. I got 45 % retention on that video, which is not great, but the intro was
really good. And it shows the idea, if you are very energetic when you do your
things, you make it simple and you make it quick, you will get people to watch
your video for longer. and this way and these will not happen let's make sure that
doesn't happen again please now the story again I will make sure I show you in a
very quick transition how you can make a great story an easy story I'm not Hayden
Hillersmith okay I try and just I make FIFA videos at home so you need to give
people a reason to watch and I think one thing that no many people are talking
about is tension. I want to teach you how you can use tension to increase your
retention from like 50 % to 60. I think that has been the key for me to actually
increase from like 50 % to 60 % and removing all the fluff. I think enough people
say that. I think anybody can understand if you like if there is a part in the
video where you're seeing the video and you're like, why is this here? You should
remove it, right? Do you all get that? Can you say yes? Yes. Let's go. Nice.
Wow, I'm excited. Now, what is tension? Because I actually
they won't leave because they think you're about to reach the goal. If you watch a
mis -revis video and you love it, you realize, well, if you watch and you keep
watching it, you realize that a lot of times because you think the video is about
to end. So why leave is the video is about to end? So if you can make sure that
that's how your videos feel, this is what's going to happen. Well, this is not
what's going to happen. Sorry, this is a bad example. That's not, not bad. But in
this case, this retention graph, to some retention geeks out there, I don't know
what you're going to make out of this, but what I make out of this is that it
was very repetitive. I would tell you what the video was about. Basically, I was
using a player in every FIFA. FIFA has been out since 98,
so I played 24 video games. It took me 16 hours to record this, which is a lot
of time. And the video inside felt very repetitive. I was going FIFA by FIFA by
FIFA. So people were bored. They go bored very quickly, and that's what you can
see. My graph had 53%, half a million views, which is like, for me back then,
that's like my worst performing video. And in the second half of the video, I lost
20%. So what do I do to fix this? Well, in the next one, I add a story.
So this video was talking about how I bought the most expensive team in the game.
and the way I came up with it.
it will end and that's why the retention is a little bit more flat it's not
perfect I know I'm sorry next year I'll come back with 70 % hold me accountable for
that yes thank you I got excited who now in that second half I actually only lost
8 % of people where again in the other one I lost 20 % so yeah now the outro this
is again a part that I really like and I'm very passionate about. I love to make
my outros end as soon as the video ends. I know a lot of people that would
literally like the video ends and they're like, ooh, this was nice. Like, wow, I
really enjoyed this. And I'm like, bro, if the video is about you buying something,
the moment you buy it, it ends, right? Why do you have to tell me that you were
excited about buying it the entire time? Like, people leave after that. This is what
it looks like on the right side when you go on for too long. I don't know if you
guys can see it, but basically, I'm basically telling people to leave. Every second
that was by, people are leaving the video. On the left side, which is a very good
outro, it's flat. Because, well, I ended the video where it was supposed to end at
the ending. So, what does that look like? Again, it's a video, but they don't play,
really. So Basically, the way I end an outro is as soon as the last thing is,
which in this case was the best team, yeah, it was like the best team in the
game. The way I ended it, as soon as I had the final team, was me saying, like,
did you love me building the best team in the game? You would love me doing
something else, like click here to watch it. That's it. That's the outro. As soon
as I show the final team, I tell them to go and watch my next video, and it
makes them return, which is actually our next point hopefully yes returning viewers
so how do you make people return because everything I've told you up to this up to
this point you can actually do but then they will never come back and if that
happens then your channel ends up being one of those where you have like one video
that gets like 10 million views and then every single other gets a thousand how
many of those channels have you guys seen I've seen too many so I want that to
stop the way you do that is if you repeat the great idea. If you have one video
that go over a million views, you should repeat that. If you go one video that got
more than what you average, you should repeat that. And yeah, you get people to
return by not clickbaiting. I think we all know that, but I kind of wanted to talk
about it. And then you need to understand your view. I'm going to talk about that
later. But how do you repeat the idea? I think I'm really good at this, and you're
going to see how. But as I said before, you need to look at a video that you did
that got a lot more views than you normally get and add a twist to it. So what
does that look? Okay, this is, you're going to love this. So I did this format of
videos that I repeated four times, and I actually got 8 .4 million views on it. And
basically, the idea was that I did something and that turned into a consequence. So
like, I open, icon packs every goal, I didn't understand understand how weird they
also want to sound in front of a hundred people and even FIFA people don't
understand this title but it's I open icon packs every goal I scored so in FIFA
there is like a pack that you can open and there is also a way that you can
score goals like in any sports you can score in this case I scored but in the
next one in the second example I won games so that's a follow -up I saw that the
first video in seven months got 2 .7 million views so I was like well what about
we do that again I did it five months five months later it got two million I then
did it two months it got 2 .7 million and then I did it again and it got 1
million but how well if you see the thumbnails they're all very similar except the
first one I don't know why I have to change it but the three thumbnails for those
of you that are not cannot see on the back, the three thumbnails are very similar.
So it's very easy for somebody that saw one of my videos and really liked it to
see the next one and be like, oh shoot, I saw that first video and I liked it.
What about we click on this one again? Because it's going to make me feel good
again. So you're making people recognize your thumbnails and come back and see them
twice and see your video twice. Now, how others do it? Well,
you might know this man. He's called Mr. Beast. I think he doesn't need an
introduction, really. But he has done this one thing where it's not all super
similar, but they all have something in common. He's in the middle. There is a day
on the side. There is one that says hour, but I wanted to add four, you know. The
hour one is different, but I wanted to add four. I'm sorry. Just look better for
my eye. They all have similar faces. And if you see in three of them, he's
actually reaching his hand out. So it's very easy for anybody that saw the, say for
example, I survived 50 hours in a maximum security prison, to then see that I spent
50 hours buried alive. I mean, like, I love the previous one. I'm going to click
on this one again. So he's getting people to return. And yeah, he's always on the
middle, too, on those ones. He has a lot of different, like, styles. Now, clickbait.
I just wanted to touch on this very quick. My definition of clickbait is if you
promise something and it doesn't happen in the video you should that's bad you
shouldn't do that and with viewers i actually wanted to make sure that you all
understand your viewer everything i've told you up until now makes no sense if you
don't know who you're making videos for so please after this ask yourself who are
you targeting like who are they what excites them bro like how old are they What
do they do when they go home? I know how to answer all these questions,
so it's very easy for me to make a video that will make these people excited. I'll
give an example just to, you know, you kind of get it. My fans are football fans.
They love football. They all support a football team. So if I make a video about
that team, I know they're going to click on that video because they love that team.
How old are they? Well, they're like 10, really.
Yeah, Yeah, I've found 21 -year -olds on the street that have told me like, hey,
they are very rare, though. But when I make videos, I have them on top of my mind
because I know what will make them laugh, what will make them click, obsess over
that. And then I have a little case study where I wanted to teach you how I got
from a million views by removing my face from my thumbnail. It sounds very nice. It
was actually very hard. And if you see my thumbnail change, it might not look like
unreal from the back, but by that point, it was like 140 days into this upload.
So you may be like, what are you doing? Why are you changing a video after 140
days? Well, it had 1 .3 million views, and I believed it could get more I'm just
crazy like that sometimes and when I change that you can I don't know if the ones
on the back can see it but the CTR was something like when the video came out was
something like 5 % 6 % as soon as I changed the thumbnail it became 9 and a lot
of people clicked on the video again and I want to teach you how I did that so
these are before and that's the after they are very different very different
thumbnails the title is called I build Ronaldo's dream team.
in my head, because they want to see his team. So I need to make it very certain
that the theme that I'm showing is the real one that he says inside. So on the
left one, that wasn't very clear. If you see him and me, he's clearly Photoshopped.
Like, he's clearly Photoshopped. I am clearly Photoshopped there. And in the middle,
there is even two faces. There is his face twice in the thing. And there is text
above it. And then there is sky. What is the sky there like people wonder this
thing when they see this on their brows when they see this on their on their
phones they're wondering like why is there a sky there that that makes people not
click i actually did a test on this by the way if you confuse a viewer they will
not like it and then the after now uh i'm gonna tell you the why i changed i
kind of went through it but i wanted to tell you too like i basically brainstorm a
lot of alternatives, and what I told you about, I wanted to make it certain that
he was there with me. So I made it look like a call, right? Of course, Ronaldo is
on a call with me. He's clearly not. That did not happen inside the video. But it
gets the idea across. And he actually told his dream team, which is like in
football, you have like 11 players. And he said his favorite in 11. So a lot of
people, like I know the 10 -year -old that goes to class and likes football will
love this video so I just kind of needed to get the idea across that I talked to
him and that he told me his team so on the right side of the thumbnail I showed
his team the little arrow is because there is a lot of things happening I actually
went on to make a very variation of this later on but this one worked really well
for me and oh thank that's it I guess
thank Thank you. Wow. Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Wow. He's got two minutes left.
He's got a question. Loud and proud. We don't have a like to move. Go ahead. Stand
up and shout. Is
it a good idea to go back and read the thumbnails on those? Or is it better just
to go out and remake the content with a better If I had 100 % of my time, I
wouldn't allocate any of it to doing that. But if I have a break and I want to,
like, go outside and, like, eat something, or I'd rather, I wouldn't go outside and
I would do that change. If you get me, like, it's something that is not important,
but you have extra time. Yeah, why not? Especially, I would say, if you're getting
over a million views of video, maybe it makes a lot of sense. But if you are,
like, getting less than 10K or less than 100K of video,
Well, I like to do eight first because I can put midrolls in, so that helps pay
the bills. So that's, that's a certain one. But I've noticed that the longer the
video, the better it performs.
So ideally, I want to keep the videos between 8 and 12 minutes. But if I can,
over 20 helps a lot. because they perform better for me you need to do your own
research don't just go and apply what I said because then I will see a lot of
people making 24 -hour videos and be like I'll be like I'm sorry YouTube I guess
last question when doing a B testing for your thumbnails how soon do you change a
thumbnail if you see that's like not performing bro as soon as I get sad genuinely
like if it's a 10 of 10 oh I'm ready I'm ready I'm ready
be and then change it as soon as I'm performing bad but sometimes this exercise
where I change the thumbnail I really like to do because it it makes my brain
think about new thumbnail so I would say even if you don't do a lot of A -B test
in the future when you have free time you can do some believe me it's fun or
maybe I'm just crazy all right let's give it up for Santiago Vasquez thank you
thank you