4 Creating Engaging Content Production Prep Stage

Hey, Jump Starters, ready to jump back in and get started on one of the most
important aspects for your success. Now, we covered a lot of things that a lot of
creators really focus in on that title, that thumbnail, the video idea, But
ultimately what we're actually coming here today is where the majority of YouTubers
actually fell. And I know a lot of you that are watching this video are going to
fall into the same trap because sometimes as creators, we love our creation. We
think that it's so amazing, but ultimately it underperforms. And when it
underperforms, people don't normally share it or, and this is really important, the
algorithm will never Recommend it. So in this video, we're going to actually cover
the important topic of video structures and also the pattern of narration.
And this is the key to really understanding your content and the pacing of your
content and how your content will perform with an audience. So why are we stressing
about video structure? Well, I can just tell you three words and these are the most
important words that you need to understand to be successful on YouTube and it's
this retention retention and retention now I can honestly say that that is the key
for really succeeding on YouTube and I can tell you there's a lot of you that say
hey I got great retention but you know YouTube's like suppressing my my views We'll
get to that in a second. And ultimately, we're going to get into the depth of what
YouTube is really looking for when it recommends content that's in a couple weeks.
But ultimately, what we're going to cover is how to make your content good. And
we're going to really break down the structure of your video content. And I'm going
to show you in a way that you'll be able to comprehend a little bit better. And
then next, you know, we need to understand how that video content is really going
to resonate with humans. Now, that being said,
average view duration or average percentage viewed. Well, it's kind of the same
thing. And YouTube looks at it a little bit differently. We'll get to that in a
couple weeks. However, I can tell you this right now that if you disregard average
viewed percentage and you only focus in average view duration, you're not seeing the
complete picture of why your video is either performing or underperforming and you
won't have any idea what to actually tweak. Now, I could tell you, I work with
clients all over the world, and the first thing that I really am super sensitive to
is traffic and the retention of that traffic, because every traffic source is going
to be a little bit different, and I'm not going to go into a lot of details. I'm
going to say that for upcoming weeks. However, I had a client that was actually
coming on, and they had some pretty good content. They had amazing titles, and they
had amazing thumbnails, and they actually had great video ideas, but their content
wasn't really performing. Now you can see here, this is something that I think a
lot of you would be able to see is audience retention is a 21 % two minutes and
37 seconds. Now, that being said, that content's not very good. And you're like,
okay, we gotta hire someone, so they hired me, right? You might have videos that
look like this. And Basically, there's a couple key things that we're looking at
right here is the hockey stick effect. You can see that a lot of people come on.
They were really interested in that title and thumbnail, and in a very short amount
of time, they lost interest in the content, the video. So what I did next with
this client, we actually went and analyzed their content, and I was able to help
them see some of the mistakes that they're making, and then I actually taught them
a few things that I'm going to teach you here in this video that was able to help
increase the average view duration, and most importantly,
the average view percentage. Now, let's go ahead and take a look at this. Now, you
can see that they actually went up a full minute here for their retention, and
they're now at 32%. Now, here's where the gold really is in the system that I'm
teaching you, because I'm not holding anything back. There's nothing I'm holding back
for a higher tier. The system here for Channel Jumpstart is how do you actually
analyze when you're making improvements? And then ultimately, how do you make it
better? That's what I'm going to teach you here in Channel Jumpstart. And ultimately,
when you go through the system, you can see right here that they actually increased
their retention. They went up to eight minutes, 36 seconds. That's a far cry from
where they're at before. and their average view percentage is a
before, you know, they were at 2 minutes 39 seconds, so they didn't have a lot of
minutes watch. But after they went through the system, they went up to 8 minutes 36
seconds. Now, I know there are some of you watching this video that are wondering,
well, what did they do? How did they go from a 2 minute 32 second average view
duration up to an 8 minute 36 second average duration? Now, before we get into
this, I know that there's some of you that are saying, wait a minute, that's only
50 % and I get better than 50 % on my average view duration. I'm not getting the
market penetration. I'm getting the views and visibility that I was promised. Now,
this is a big mistake because in a couple of weeks, we're going to actually talk
about how to actually analyze. And one of the things that I need to tell you, that
average view duration and average view percentage is relative. It is relative to
traffic source and
It's true. Caveman. Now I can tell you since the beginning of time, humans have
always wanted to share stories. People want to listen to stories. And it's all about
really understanding storytelling. And it all starts with video structure. Every video
needs video structure. And I can tell you, if you don't have video structure,
the retention levels are going to drop if you want them to go up it's more about
really pulling people in to your video content now i can say uh with the surety
because of technology and the way that we're able to communicate a lot quicker now
storytelling really comes back down to story arcs and really the story arc has been
around and i think a lot of you already understand this now i want to take it a
little bit deeper And this is where I can really help you have a broader
understanding of how your content isn't really that good, but it could always be
better and that you should never be satisfied. It all starts right here. Now, let's
go ahead and look at story arcs visually. Now, I can tell you that this story arc
is the viewer's journey in your video. And if there's any point in time that you're
disconnecting with the viewer, that's when the viewer will leave, and that's when
you're actually going to have lower retention levels. Now, the first thing here you
see is the hook. Now, we're going to get in a lot more depth than the hook and
the importance of the hook. But more importantly, in the viewer's journey, you're
able to see that we have a re -engagement point. We have a setup, another re
-engagement point, a climax, a little hidden gym down here. We're going to hold on
for a second, the wrap -up. Now, with story arcs, you probably heard that there are
different acts. And this is a three -act system. There are three acts.
Now, the first act is enticement. You know, since they've actually clicked on the
video, they saw, hey, do you know what? The title and thumbnail is good. And what
we're doing now is enticing them to really want to consume all the video next is
the setup the setup is probably one of the most difficult areas to really navigate
and be as a creator because if you are disconnecting with your audience this is
basically the time that they leave even if you have an amazing title you have an
amazing thumbnail you have an amazing hook the setup for what you're going to do is
so key and that's where a lot of people get lost. And it's also an area where a
lot of content creators really struggle with. Next is the third act. The third act
is the climax. Now, I can tell you this right here.
A lot of you have great ideas. Sometimes when you're creating content, creators tend
to put their climax or act three right after act one. And so it's disconnected.
People just disconnect with that content, and that will lead to lower retentions.
So that is the story arc structure, and I can tell you that a lot of content
creators out there struggle with this because they put maybe Act 3 where Act 2 is
at, and they move things around, and there was really not a pattern for viewership.
That viewer feels disconnected with the content, and then they leave. So that is
very destructive. Now, I thought about really illustrating this even deeper, and I'm
really excited to show you this because I truly do believe that we can learn by
real high -performing content, and the highest performing content out there is a show
about nothing. And it is Seinfeld. I can tell you that Seinfeld is a show about
nothing, but it's all about storytelling. So let's go ahead and break this down.
Let's go ahead and pull out our trusty, dusty story arc here. And you can see that
what we need to look at is how did Seinfeld really take the viewer on the journey
in an episode? And we start with the hook. Now, I can tell you that this is a
very standard system that Jerry would have, as every hook was the same. It was
basically him doing stand -up And that stand -up was certain jokes that was going to
foreshadow what the episode was going to be about. Even though that the show was
about nothing, it was always about Jerry coming up with his bits for his stand -up
routine. There's like always one location in your neighborhood, one store location
that's constantly changing hands. Everybody has this in their neighborhood. It's a
leather store. It's a yogurt shop. And it's a pet supply. It's like constantly
changing. Nobody can do business there. It's like some sort of Bermuda triangle of
retail, you know. Now going back to the story arc, you're able to see here the
setup. The setup is key. And I feel like a lot of you as content creators do a
very good job at this. Let's see how Jerry does it. She thinks I'm a nice guy.
Women always think I'm nice, but women don't want nice. This is amazing. I haven't
seen person to win that restaurant since it opened. Poor guy. Why is nice bad?
What kind of a sick society are we living in when nice is bad? What's that smell?
What are you wearing? A little cologne.
Manly. Monica wants me to wear it. So why don't you say no? I'm too nice. Look at
this poor guy. His family's probably back in Pakistan. They're waiting for him to
send back money. This is horrible. She wants me to take an IQ test. It's because
you're stupid enough to wear the cologne.
No. Okay, so right here, there is the setup of the video. Now, there's a couple
key points, and once you really dive deep into Jerry Seinfeld and the way that he
actually does things, is there's multiple storylines going all at once, and that
keeps the viewer's attention. Now, in this case, I want to be able to focus in on
a couple of them. Number one is the nice people that's kind of the setup of hey
nice people you know she wants me to be nice and george is talking about that the
second one is the store owner that just opening up and nobody's going in and
jerry's starting to feel bad for that store owner the third thing would be george
basically is starting to transform a little bit and he has a girlfriend that's a
little needy here basically wants to uh change him up a little bit by you know
having new type of cologne and also taking an IQ test. So that's kind of a really
good setup of what's going to actually happen in the segment. Now what's really
important is that we start to really escalate it. Now the way that we escalate
content is to re -engage them because they actually lose people because they don't
really re -engage them properly. And so let's go ahead and see what Jerry does.
Cassus Belly. What's that? It's Latin. I read it in some book. I don't know, I
just wanted to say it out loud. Come on, go in! Go in!
Have you gone in there? No, I'm afraid we'll start talking and I'll wind up going
partners with him.
Hey.
You
know, I could probably shoot him from here. I'd be doing us both a favor.
I'm wearing some cologne, all right? Sure, fine.
Cassus belly.
Cassus belly. What's that? Since when do you wear cologne?
Well, that's what I do so important. Why must always be the focal point of
attention? Okay, so this one right here is really interesting because now we're re
-engaging in the setup, right? So Jerry, basically,
or what, taking an IQ test. And so all this stuff is starting going together. You
can see once again that re -engagement point with the cologne and change.
This is where it's actually brilliant. Now, I can tell you, this section right here
is where all of you can improve. Like, you need to start thinking about how you
reengage, just like Jerry Seinfeld. And then the setup. Now, this is really
important, guys. This is an important section because we've actually kept the viewer
all the way up to this point and what we need to do is set up properly the
climax. Now the climax could be what the most valuable thing that you're teaching
them or it could be the funniest moment in the video or it could be whatever. Like
that's the moment that you're actually setting up is that pivotal moment in the
video. Now the setup can get really interesting and there's several ways you can do
this. Let's go ahead and see the Jerry Seinfeld way. Welcome to the Dream Cafe.
Well, I've been looking forward to it. Oh, how did you hear about us?
People, people are talking.
Smoking or non -smoking? We are proud to offer both. Non -smoking, it would be great.
Very good. Okay, so that clip is really brilliant, and it was able to really set
it up in a way that made the storyline even stronger. Now,
let me explain. Now, in an earlier clip, Jerry was with his binoculars looking down
and was really feeling bad for that restaurant owner. And Elaine says, hey, if you
want to help him out, why don't you be the first person to actually be his
customer? And so that's in back of Jerry's mind, right? Well, this is the moment.
This is the moment that it sets up the storyline to be super solid and it's
brilliant. And the reason why Jerry walks in because he's the nice guy,
that's a theme that's going on, right? And also he wants to help that restaurant
owner out. And it got to the level of him helping him out of giving him very bad
advice to tell him to open up a Pakistani restaurant. And it even got further.
So all this hope and excitement is coming in and ultimately it has that setup for
the climax of this episode. Now, before we get into this, a lot of creators make
this big mistake. They feel like, oh, do you know what? I was able to set it up.
Let's go ahead and get the climax. And that's not what you need to do. What you
need to do is what Jerry does here, which is a re -engagement. The average person
sees a situation like this. They walk right buy it. Not me.
You're very special.
So right there is even at taking it further, it's a re -engagement. He's back to
looking in those binoculars again and says, oh, he took my advice. I'm special. I'm
nice. I did really, really good. He's changing this. This is going to be so great
for him. And that re -engagement point is getting that viewer so engaged in the
content that it's going to make the climax amazing. Well, congrats.
Let me tell you something, Babu, you go back in that kitchen tell your chef I want
the works. Very good.
Very good? No, not very good. Very great. I am very,
very great.
Babu.
Baboo,
Baboo.
You know, I've got to tell you, I never do this, but the shrimp,
it's just it's a little stringy. You have any chicken? The shrimp is stringy?
Well, maybe you're a fridge. Quiet!
You shut off! You make me change restaurants, but nobody comes.
Now, that is storytelling at its finest. And let me tell you why is because this
episode was able to really bring the viewer into this moment that Jerry was thinking
he was doing something nice. He was helping somebody out. You know, he was being
that nice guy. And he gets in there, gives some very bad advice and tells him what
to do. And now the restaurant owner is a little frustrated. You can see that
frustration coming in, and then the tables are turned. Jerry is not a nice guy
anymore. He becomes that bad guy. And he starts to say, it was my mom wrong. So
ultimately, that's where it goes. And what's interesting about this, it goes a little
bit even deeper because that restaurant was a Mexican, Chinese,
American cuisine there at once and Jerry thought, hey, that's a very bad idea. You
can see that that advice backfired and it put Abu in more debt because he had to
borrow more money to do that transformation and ultimately no one came. So who's to
blame? Jerry, that's what it makes it so brilliant. Now, this next section, if you
remember this little hidden gym that we were talking about, I actually learned this
hidden gym by one of the most talented people and creators that I've ever met and
it's Studio C. Studio C actually has some of the highest retention I've ever seen,
sometimes 90%, 82%. And I always wondered why, you know,
they're having so much retention on their videos and it actually comes back down to
a couple things. Number one, they follow this pattern of the story arc,
but they also added another section in here. And I didn't notice until I was
actually doing this training that Jerry Seinfeld actually does this as well, which is
the gush. So right after you have that climax, you need to have that gush,
and the gush is it just everything comes out. There's the last joke and the last
laugh that actually happens, and it happens right here with Jerry.
You know what it was, bad location. Come on, let's not stand here too long. We
might run into it. Aren't you cold? Where's your jacket? Oh, sorry.
I'm going upstairs.
Hey, guys. I just ran into Monica. You know what my IQ is?
151. 151.
It's a good score. So what are you up for? How about Mexican? Italian. No,
Chinese. You know, it would be great.
All right, so that is the gush right there, because that was the original restaurant
choice that Abu did. So it was American, it was Mexican, it was Chinese,
It was Italian, it was all in one place, and that's where it all comes together.
And that was that last laugh, that last laugh, which is the gush. Now, that can be
also perceived, you know, when you have your great tip or in education,
you're teaching them that moment, it's like giving them another hidden gym where
they're like, hey, I came here to learn this, but I ultimately learned this as
well. And that's where the true value comes in. The most important thing to do,
especially when you're dealing with the gush, is make sure that that last laugh, or
the biggest value, is right at the end of the video. Now, that being said, this is
the story arc, and there's one last thing that Jerry does, and this is what a lot
of YouTubers do, which is the wrap -up. Let's look at your professional good deed
doers, your lone rangers, your Superman, your Batman, your Spider -Men, your Elastic
Man. They're all wearing disguises, masks over their faces, secret identities,
don't want people to know who they are. Too much aggravation. Superman?
Thanks for saving my life. But did you have to come through my wall? I'm renting
here. They got a security deposit. What am I supposed to do? Now that was the wrap
up. Now, I can tell you, Jerry Seinfeld, with his series, It was a show about
nothing, but it had everything to do with storytelling, and that's what you can
learn. I can tell you it was extremely successful that people want to watch and
rewatch and rewatch, rewatch, rewatch, and rewatch even more. And I can tell you
that Jerry Seinfeld created a show that people want to watch day in and day out.
And it's the second most rerun show in history. Who's number one?
Do you pot at party. Another master storyteller. So guys, in the next video, we're
going to actually cover what you can do and how you can be a great storyteller on
YouTube using this pattern in a way that makes sense for YouTube videos. And we'll
see you on the next video.
Go.
Go.
Vala Mama. Oh la Mama. Oh la Mama. Me la Mama.
Oh la Mama. Mama?
Mama Kamada. Mama Canada!

PT2

Hey, Jump Starters, we're going to jump back in and start talking about the video
structure in YouTube videos. Now, my goal for this training here right now is really
to help you never watch YouTube the same way ever again. Why? Because you're going
to be watching videos in a way that you're analyzing every little detail to see if
they actually have the YouTube video structure that I'm going to show you. Now, I
can tell you, once I was able to start consuming video content in this way, it
made me a better creator. Now, I know a lot of you are just thinking about titles
and thumbnails and you're really trying to engage, but ultimately at the end of the
day, if you can get the viewer to be emotionally connected to the content, there
hundreds of millions of video views, and he just crossed over 9 million subscribers.
Now, what makes Mark's video so good is he is a master storyteller,
and also he's able to really create that story arc. So we're going to do is take
one of his videos, Glitter Bomb versus Package Thief. Now, think about that for a
second. It's something that people are going to be emotionally connected to,
especially if you had your package stolen during the holidays, because this is when
it was coming out. The first part of the structure of really good content is
hooking the people in. Let's see what Mark did here. This guy took a package from
my porch, and now he's about to open it in his car, but what he doesn't know is
this is a custom -built bait package that is recording him on four different cameras,
and it's about to unleash a pound of the world's finest glitter, along with some
other surprises. But to understand how we got to this point first we need to rewind
a bit now that was an amazing hook it really did so many different things the
first thing that it did is it reinforced that title and thumbnail so when someone
clicked on it they're able to say oh this is really interesting then they actually
had the little surprise of fart spray and a few other things that was like hey i'm
really curious about it that enticement was actually happening where people wanted to
consume more content. Now, that being said, it leads us to the next step in the
story arc is the re -engagement. Now, I can tell you that this is where a lot of
people fell, and that's where a lot of people just jump off. And the reason why is
because they're like, okay, they're trying to set up the story in a way, and they
don't really look at how do you pull the viewer in even deeper to your content.
And let's see what Mark does here. About seven months ago, I noticed a package
being reported is delivered, but it never arrived. So when I checked our security
cameras, I noticed this lovely couple out for a stroll.
As you can see, they have backpacks on, and they're just going around the
neighborhood making an afternoon out of this. And if you've ever been in a situation
like this, you just sort of feel violated. And then I took this to the police, and
even with...
Anyone was going to make revenge bait package and over -engineered the crap out of
it, it was going to be me.
So look at that. Okay, so seriously, that re -engagement, it was like really defining
what the problem is and why people are wanting to watch the video. It's the glitter
bomb versus the thief and it was a personal experience that he had that he felt
violated and now he wanted revenge. He wanted to be able to have revenge and so
ultimately the viewer is getting more emotionally connected to the content. Now I can
tell you that this is really important, especially when you re -engage the viewer.
They're more emotionally connected to you and your video and it really primes them
for the next step, which is the setup. Most content creators really do fell at
this. They really don't think, How can I actually set up the pivotal moment in the
video, which is the climax, and why people should actually stick around on the
video? And sometimes they think, oh, this is the setup's really good, but really
ultimately it's weak. Let's see what Mark does here. So I started with a sketch and
some CAD, and then I hit up my buddy Sean, who was really good with this type of
small electronic stuff, and we got to work. Ultimately, when they opened the package
I just wanted to celebrate their choice of profession with a cloud of glitter
because I mean who doesn't love glitter that's easy I could just do that passively
with like a spring when it opens but I also wanted to record their reaction and
that's what makes the engineering here an order of magnitude more difficult because
if you think about it this thing has to sit on a porch all day and it can't be
plugged in and you have no idea when someone will come and pick this up so it's
not like you could just hit record on the camera and then put it in the box
because you're going to run out of battery and storage space. On top of that, I
need some way to recover this footage in case I never get the bait package back.
So after six months and lots of design iterations and so much testing, here's where
we landed. Now, that setup was really amazing because he was explaining the things
that's going to happen and the thought process behind it. And ultimately, his
channel's about education, so it's really educating people on the process and how
long did it take six months? You're like, this guy's insane, that he spent six
months on this project so that he can actually get some revenge. But that's where
it's great because it's really getting you pulled more into the story. Now,
another common mistake that a lot of creators make is once they set it up, they
get right to the climax. And that is a really big mistake because you can to
actually get more watchtime minutes and it's a lot
Kevin McAllister.
I even looked up and am using the address of the actual house they filmed the
movie in. And of course, it's being shipped to his boys, Harry and Marve. And
there's a charge port in the bottom, because if it doesn't get stolen in a given
day, I can bring it in and then recharge all the batteries in the system overnight.
So the idea is the bad guy comes and takes it off your porch, then lifts the lid
and these two limit switches tell the circuit board brain inside that the lid's been
removed and then that sets everything in motion. And I may be biased, but sometimes
a well -engineered design is beautiful.
That was probably one of the best re -engagement that I've seen in a YouTube video,
and it really primes you for that climax. I mean, you've gone through the process
of the pain, of why he's doing this his great idea he does a great setup and then
this reengagement is bringing in pop culture once again which is his childhood hero
like think think about this for a second like these this is a very well thought
out video where he was thinking okay what can i do at this point to reengage them
and ultimately how do you actually pull that into the video this is all because
he's prepared to create content and it really sets us up for the final which is
the climax okay so I was at work and I got a notification that the geo fence we
set up had been tripped so then I check the cameras and sure enough the package is
gone so I checked the GPS and sort of tracked it and it appears they're in a car
because they seem to leave my house pretty quickly but it seems to have stopped in
a parking garage which is where I'm headed to now And if you're new here, this
isn't a prank channel. So I am completely out of my comfort zone.
And there she is. Oh.
This is like recovering the black box of a crashed airplane. It would still work,
even if I didn't get the box back, the footage would upload to the cloud, but it's
just faster to plug the phones in. So I'm going to go home and find out how this
somehow ended up here. So it appears he was walking down the sidewalk and then
suddenly makes a hard left.
Then he takes a package and gets at his car and eventually makes it to this
parking garage where this glorious sequence unfolds.
No
way!
everywhere
What? What? What do you?
What the fuck? Come on. What is that smell? Nicky?
What in the dog? Come on. What
You think it out of here, boy, you shouldn't even to grab that shit. What the
f***? Get this out of here. You want me to do, that's going on
your self. Take this shit up out of here. For real. Woo! Let that shit that shit.
That's all that.
*grunhido
* *grunhido * *grunhido *
*grunhido *
So the moral of the story is, just don't take other people's stuff. Not only is it
not cool, but on the plus side, you'll never find yourself in this situation. Or
gonna get in here like who you had in here okay that right there is the formula
of really understanding how videos work now i can tell you the reason why it was
so successful because it was a story and it resonated with people and when they
watched it what do they want to do they wanted to share it did he even once say
share this video absolutely not and i really want to tell you that I know that
there's other content creators out there that says, hey, you need to have an outro,
call to action. We're going to get to that a little bit later. But more
importantly, the story arc is what most content creators really struggle with,
not necessarily telling them to, you know, go subscribe or watch another video.
That's great. And we'll get to that later. But ultimately, it's the pattern that
actually happens in a video that keeps you really involved, connects with you on a
level that you want to naturally be engaging in that content by sharing it with
other people. Now, when those things happen, the algorithm, the AI is taking note
and ultimately will get more people like you watching the videos like this.
That is the secret for the success. below this video you're going to see a workbook
and what I want you to do is go and watch some of the top performing videos that
you've selected in your research phase now look at it through the lens of seeing if
there's some type of story and there's some type of story arc I can tell you that
the most successful videos on YouTube outside of music have this story arc that's
actually involved so the viewers like pulled in that they actually want to share,
they actually want to engage, they actually want to watch that video time and time
again. So once again, your assignment is to download the workbook and see if you
can see these patterns that are actually happening in these videos. Now, I can tell
you that if you can master this, this will help you grow faster than anything else
on YouTube.

PT3

Hey, jump starters, ready to jump back in and really teach you how to make your
video content pop. Now, we've discussed in -depth about the video patterns and the
structure and story arcs and those moments that you need to keep people engaged.
well, there's things that you need to do along the way to keep them really focused
in and there's a lot of attention grabbing things that you can do and you can
actually prepare for. So in this video, you're actually going to learn how to pull
people into your content with some very subtle things that you can actually prepare
for before your video shoot. Okay, the hook. Now, I can tell you this is something
we talked about before in the story arc, but what we want to do is start preparing
things that we can do to grab people's attention that will actually reinforce the
title and thumbnail. Now this is something that I try to get so many different
variations and we shoot so many different ways because you don't know how things
will be received from the idea. So what I would encourage you to do is have
multiple ideas per video of how you're going to hook people in and shoot all those
ideas. I'm going to show you a couple hooks here that are really amazing and it's
all about really reinforcing that title and thumbnail and pulling people into the
content and this can be done really visually more than just words so let's go ahead
and watch this first one this is one that I was an executive producer project lead
for the squatty potty pooping unicorn this is where your ice cream comes from the
creamy poop of a mystic unicorn Totally clean, totally cool, and soft served straight
from a sphincter. Hmm, they're good at pooping. Okay, so that right there pretty
much grabs your attention. It doesn't matter to sound or not, and it definitely
reinforces that title and thumbnail. Now, there's other things that you can do once
you understand the idea. I really do like this next example, and it's an example
that really pulls you into the energy of the video and gives you an idea of
exactly what they're doing and it does reinforce their title and thumbnail. Hold on
ladies and gentlemen.
Definitely grabs your attention. It was the view of the camera. I know that they
actually planned that out way before because, hey, how are we going to pull people
into our video content? Since we actually used Mark Rober in another example of
video structure. He has some of the best hooks I've ever seen. Let's go ahead and
take a look at what he does. This is the brand new Guinness World Record largest
ever elephant toothpaste foam experiment. In today's video, which is partially
sponsored by LastPass, I'm gonna walk you through everything we had to go through to
get to this point, as well as some really cool side discoveries we've made in our
hundreds of hours of testing along the way. Okay, so that right there, there's kind
of a reverse frame. I know that as he was putting out his video structure, he puts
a lot of thought and say, okay, how are we going to actually pull the people in?
Also, you know, it's really preparing for the shot, really getting things in. I
really love this next creator, Zach King, and let's see what he does here. Hey,
everybody, I've got some exciting optical illusions to go over with you today. You
need to pay very close attention because your eyes are going to be trying to play
tricks on your mind. And if you do focus well, you actually might be able to pick
up on some of these illusions before I reveal them to you. This is furniture
illusions. Wow. That was an amazing hook. I definitely want to watch the rest of
that video. So what we want to do is really look how to reengage people along the
way. And it's not that necessarily that reengagement point. It could be subtle things
that you're doing with the camera or the way that you position the camera or even
a segment that you're actually putting in your content. Now, we're going to show you
two examples and it's coming from two people in this photo with me. One is going
to be Casey Nystatt because I truly believe that he's, he has been the grandfather
of how to tell a story visually and so many people have actually copied his
formula. The next would be Mr. Beast because we've given that example. I think He
does a really unique way to tell his story and really engage with the viewer in a
way that you haven't seen before. Now, let's pull up Casey Nystatt, and I can tell
you right here, when you're looking at his videos, you can notice that there is a
pattern, guys. Look at the bucket here. Look at his top performing videos of all
time on his channel, and look to see if you can find the bucket. So what we're
going to do is break down and watch his most popular video see why it was his
popular video and I truly believe it was because of all the pattern interrupts that
was actually happening in a way that engages someone and it really made his content
pop want to see the coolest thing I've ever seen in an airplane seat and that was
a hook it really pulled the viewer in
Now the next to the time I'm going to show you outside of the time lapse that
Casey does, and he is a master at this, is he's a master at visually pulling you
in even further into the content by doing some visual pattern interrupts.
See if you can see what happens here. When I think of the greatest days in my
entire life, I think of when my... Did you guys see that? I can guarantee you with
a surety that he knew he needed to really pull people into it and make it a
little bit more interesting than just talking and having his hair come down because
I've seen Casey. I've been with Casey a lot. I, you know, his all swinging that
back was all strategically plan to pull you into the content. My children were born,
or perhaps when my son graduated high school. Now, did you see how simple that was?
It was a zoom in, really close. It was a pattern interrupt so that it was
naturally happening while he's having this conversation. Or today,
when I was upgraded from business to first on Emirates. I don't know what I did to
deserve this. I really don't. Oh,
my God. Snacks?
And then the time lapse, that's something that he is well known for. And then this
little hidden gem right here, having that camera move. That's basically have that
movement coming in and coming right here on him. That is really powerful. Now,
I want to show you a couple subtle techniques that, you know, he definitely is a
master at, is really having perspective of how you're watching the video content.
That right there is really ingenious because you're seeing different perspectives of
the same thing. Yeah, he probably shot that three or four, five times, but
ultimately it was like, how do I engage people? Now, I've seen this where most
people will just do the shot of the bar lifting up, but he wanted to be able to
see the bar lifting up and then come from another camera looking at his reaction.
Guys, these are pattern interrupts that really work well, and it pulls people in and
makes your content a lot more engaging, especially when you have the moments that
you're actually doing with the story arcs as well.
This clip that you just actually saw is pretty subtle, but it's really powerful. So
the whole thing of telling the story visually with text, he was able to do that.
And then also at the end of it where he does the thumbs up. Wow. That's like
visually storytelling to its finest.
Dreams do come true. I am showering out of an airplane. Okay,
what I love about that is, once again, pattern interrupts from camera angles and
getting the shot from really down below the ankles, and then also in the shower,
he's able to see his hands going to turn things on, and then also the camera
coming back. I can tell you guys, this is really well thought out of thinking of
the edit in mind of how the journey is going to go when people are actually
engaging with your content as a viewer. I can tell you the main reason why Casey
has been so successful is because he is a master storyteller. He is super creative
and he also thinks, hey, before he picks up the camera, what can I do that makes
this interesting? He's also creative on the spot where he's able to really see
things in a way that would be really fun and engaging for the viewer. Okay, so
that's Casey. You saw all the pattern interrupts that are happening here. Now let's
take a look at Mr. Beast. I bought every single car at a car dealership. Can we
afford this? I really don't know. That's reassuring. And hey, so we talked over the
phone. The paperwork took forever. So these are the 12 cars. I just bought him. So
that was an amazing hook by Mr. Beast because his videos are bold statements and
then he reinforced that bold statement and you're able to see hey this is what he's
going to do and you're like this guy is crazy and you're actually pulled into the
story now the next thing i'm going to show you it's very subtle that happens but
this is a technique that was actually developed by the office let's see if you can
see what it is you a thousand dollars to buy and this car is four dollars and
twenty cents do not get it confused that's That's a great price. This car is $69.
This car is going to my stepdad. $10 .99. Not $99. This car is $9. That's
expensive. Okay, that right there is a technique where you're establishing a shot and
then you're zooming in and they're making a very big claim and then it cuts to the
next thing. This is what the office is known for. I'm here to tell you, that's
why, you know, the clever writing and the storylines, but it's how they engage with
the characters and get that character's reaction.
that celebration and that's where it gets really engaging guys this is all properly
planned out this is happening before the camera even picks up i know because i've
worked with him like this is something that works very consistently of how people
are going to engage and keep it interesting along the way so we now have a car
lot full of cars i want them all gone before the end of the day so man the phone
man the floor man the phone man the floor i'll man the floor you're going to
handle all the paperwork you're on channel support now that's more about editing but
it was like really quick cuts and it was like how do we start telling the story
and he was all setting it up and going from there so you're able to see a lot of
story arc that's going on here but also it's just really really fast pace and
there's a lot of fast cuts now the thing about it notice that he was even cutting
things out so it even speeded up even more now i know that's in the editing
process but i can tell you right now that that is more with the production side of
preparing okay we want it really fast pace here we want it to go here up to this
moment and then we want to make another bold statement know what that paperwork is
for no good why is the second page of work what kind of dealership are you running
very important go away i'll handle this as you can see there once again they're
using the office technique for zooming and you know have a little bit of shaky cam.
You have some text coming up when it's really hard or they want to emphasize some
words and ultimately it is just all over the place. And I'm here to tell you with
a younger audience that really wants to engage, that's the style that you have to
keep him engaged along with the story. Do you think it's worth? I would probably
say 10, 12 ,000. We like the number 12, but not 12 ,000. How about $12?
Can you do that? Huh? $12. Is that fine? Okay. Is it going to blow up? Nope.
Okay. So what I love about that is camera angles and ultimately how they're setting
up. They knew, hey, they need to put Jimmy in the backseat, have that communication
so that you can see her and him at the same time. It's all about camera angles
here and it's all about that story. Well, they want me to take this car and
they're going to give me $100 to take this car. You want The car? Yeah. All right,
fine. We'll give you $100 as well. Jeez, these guys are good. Okay. Alright, bye.
Mr. B's like, because I got on the B shirt. Oh, okay. $500. Whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Are you serious? Yes, ma 'am. I'm making me want to cry. Is
he making a little emotional at this car? It is. My throat is starting to get
clogged. Wow, I'm telling you that storytelling at its finest, and I really like how
it's engaging and how it's edited. It's very well done. Now there's a lot of things
that you can do to actually prepare for the video. One of the thing that Jimmy
actually does is comes up with lines and seeing how people reacts. And so he
actually has a bit of saying, hey, we want to have you say this or in this way.
And basically how people respond to it is where the gold really is. Take a look.
Right here, but it has to be an aerial font. So. Can you give me an example where
you're fine? I'm not exactly sure myself. We're good. All right. So that's where it
is. There's a lot of little details that are going on, but the pattern interrupts
is the things that you need to learn and the things that you can do and plan for.
And then also you can be like Casey and be like Mr. Beast and do it in a way
where you're like, oh, this would be more interesting if we did it this way. And
the great thing about it is you can shoot up multiple ways and then in the edit,
you have something to actually have to be able to test, which is really cool. So
your assignment is this. There is a sheet below this video, and I want you to
watch three or four videos and see if you can find some pattern interrupts that are
done visually, just kind of like what Casey was doing and also what Mr. Beast was
doing, and if it was able to pull you into the story, and we'll see you on the
next video.
What's on, Michael? I got gum in my hair. You do. This just stinks.
Don't touch it. Please don't touch it! You got a ton of dandruff. Okay, let me be.
How'd you get gum in your hair? I was walking in and I noticed something shiny
under Stanley's car and I got under to see what it was and I messed up my hair.
All for a stupid piece of tinfoil. But, best case scenario, you thought it was a
quarter. Kill me right now. We have peanut butter in the kitchen.



PT4

Hey, Jumpstarters, ready to jump on in and go through an exercise, and I'm here to
tell you it's the last thing that we're going to need before we can actually hit
record on our camera. And I know you're really excited about that, creating your
first video using the channel Jump Start System. Now, The first thing that we need
to look at is all the different things that we were able to do up to this point.
We did a lot of recon, we did a lot of research, we should have a solid video
idea that has an optimized title, and we should have a couple thumbnail ideas that's
associated with that title, and ultimately we have all these components ready to go.
So the next step, and this is really important, is that we actually look at how
we're formulating our video content. Now that you understand video structure, and we
know it's about story arc, and it's also about the three acts that are needed to
really engage someone in your content. So what are we going to do? The next thing
that we need to do is brainstorm ideas to really pull in the viewer, reengage them,
and do the setup. And all these things are going to lead to you making better
content on your video. You see below this video, there is actually another workbook
that you're going to go through the same brainstorming process.
actually need to create a very solid video to release to your audience.
Now what we're going to do now is go ahead and click below. You're going to find
the workbook, go through that process of really setting it up and use their
brainstorming technique. Don't just be satisfied with one idea. Come up with multiple
ideas and then start narrowing it down until you find the right idea to shoot. Now
here's an important point and this is a pro tip. Have several different variations
that you can shoot. It's better to shoot all.

PT 5

Hey, Jumpstarters, it's time to hit record, and I know that you've been waiting a
very long time for this. I'm here to tell you that this is a lot of work to go
through the process of properly planning for your video shoot, and we've done this.
Like, We've done a lot of recon, we've done a lot of research, we've selected a
lot of different video ideas, narrowed it down to an optimized video idea and title.
We have multiple variations for the thumbnail. Ultimately we understand the flow of
the video and the video structure and really understanding that we needed a good
hook and you have ideas for those hooks, that you have ideas for the engagement
points and the setup and the reengagement and ultimately You are ready because you
have what you need to succeed. Now, it's not going to be perfect and that's okay.
Now, my one area of emphasis when you're actually doing the video, this is really
important, take time on your thumbnails. Like, out of everything, out of everything
that you're doing. Really, really, really, really focus in on getting that right
thumbnail and have multiple variations so that when your designer is looking at it
or yourself, you can actually make a thumbnail what you envision, what you plan for,
and ultimately that will help get the algorithm going because people are going to
want to click on it. Now next, my next thing of warning would be shoot multiple
variations of that idea that you had from a hook. Shoot multiple variations of that
re -engagement moment. You can do that more and you have more ideas in the edit,
how to spice that up. I'm telling you, every big creator that I work with, that's
what they do. It's not a one take wonder. It's not. It's never a one take wonder.
They're doing multiple takes of the same thing, even saying the same things, just so
that they can have something to work with in the edit room. Guys, good luck. I
can't wait to see your videos. And we're going to actually have a section in the
channel jumpstart discord group that can share your videos to get some feedback
before you release it

PT 6 

What I'd like to do is share with you a presentation and a conversation about
really how to grow with content and with this strategy you've never seen before.
So once again, guys, over in the back, if you're talking here, hey guys, either go
out in the hall, which we love you or sit down. Okay. Okay.
All right. So what I want to share with you is every moment on YouTube,
you have opportunities. And at this moment, there was an opportunity that happened
with a YouTuber that I'm going to share with you, his kind of his story,
his journey. But he had a video that took off. And he'd been trying to...
and anyway it was this guy saying hey I got your number from a mutual friend and
this friend I actually respect a lot so I'm like okay I'll I'll have the
conversation and he's like I'm on YouTube I love to pick your brain on something
and I'm like oh here we go again I can't tell you how many times I've heard that
over the course of my life. And I'm like, they just want a free consult, you know.
And so anyway, I kind of pushed it off, and he came over,
and since literally his office is like two blocks away from my office. And we had
conversations, and I told him about channel jumpstart. I says, hey, I have a program
where I do And here's the head coach, Justin. Let's have you go through the process
of what you're going to do in Channel Jumpstart. I can honestly say he actually
took two months to decide. It was the hardest sell that we've ever had to sell in
Channel Jumpstart history. We always talk about the infamous Matt story.
And ultimately,
this is where I guess.
like, well, I just don't partner up with anyone. You know, I'm very selective of
who that happens. So just come learn my system. So I went to my president of the
company now, and I says, Justin, I says, look, I would really like to partner with
this guy. I do not have time to go in depth on all the conversations.
But I want you to give him extra attention than any of the other students that we
have. I want personalized attention, and I want you to start working with him very
quickly. And let's just kind of see, can he work with me and can I work with him?
And so anyway, that's where the friendship started. And then I met,
I knew his wife for a very long time, we kind of grew up together. And ultimately
I started watching the videos. And I just wanted to become obsessed with his
channel. I wasn't really giving him specific feedback. He was working with, you know,
learning my channel Jumpstar system. And I started to watch something and I noticed
something that I never seen in YouTube that was actually being done in a way to
gain a lot of audience trust. And I shared with you some of the stuff that we
were doing yesterday with the four Cs and what that actually means, but I actually
saw a pattern in his videos. And I'm like, if this is really him,
we're kind of cut out of the same mold in the sense of we're not in it for fame,
we're in it for impact. And so we started having different conversations. Well, it
ended up, he went through Channel Jumpstart, and he had a good video that previous
pop right there was this video right here. And then he went for a period of time,
and what does retention look like? Okay, and not bad, 30%,
2 million videos, you know, whatever. He had a little moment here that was
interesting. And then this occurred.
And then this occurred. This moment right here occurred. So that's the moment that I
want to kind of talk about. And I want to welcome up on the stage my partner,
Matt's offer recovery. Matt. Come on up, Matt. All
right. All right.
There we go. Okay, so this is what we're going to do. We're not having a
conversation. Hold up. Oh. I have one correction. Oh, corrections now. I was editing,
filming, uploading, editing, all of that on an iPhone 7. Okay, it's 7. It's an
iPad.
It'll look like an iPad. Anyway, so what I'd like to do is talk about this.
there. But this is the moment that things changed. And it wasn't because of,
it wasn't anything that he needed to know differently. We just needed to put the
right pieces in play so they could actually understand. And I want to share with
you the video that actually hit it. It's this video right here that took off. Now,
Matt, what was going through your mind? Because this is like one of the best
thumbnails that I've seen. You can see everything's right down here, too. So, but
this had 4 .2 million views. Tell me about this thumbnail, and why did it work?
Wow.
So I, all of you that are to YouTube probably understand, like thumbnails.
I talk to a lot of YouTubers and they hate trying to figure out thumbnails. We
spent a lot of time on this one. We wanted to show, unfortunately,
in the work that I do, the cameras steal the angles and the depth and the scope.
And I just really wanted this thumbnail to show the scope of what we were doing
and just grab their attention and bring it to this truck that's about to slide off
this cliff. So The thing that caught my attention, and you guys probably went into
thumbnail classes here and you're trying to learn about it, but this is the biggest
thing I want you to all understand. You have to know your audience to have your
thumbnails work. Some of the thumbnail design is great for people that are Gen Ziers
and they like, you know, they're still in school or whatever. And you've got to
really understand your audience. For me, I can honestly say I'm not the audience of
Matt's off -road. Like, these are people that really work with their hands,
and they understand they can rebuild an engine probably. You know, they probably had
shop and a student or whatever. But 36 degrees means something to them on that
tilt. What I saw, I'm like, what's 36 degree? What's going on here? And so, for
me, you're kind of just showing that perspective, but we had a ton of views that
actually hit that. Now, what was interesting is I want to talk about retention rate,
because I think the click -through rate is really important. Where most YouTubers fell
completely is they can get the click, but they can't retain.
Now, on a bad retention video, that means when someone clicks on it, that they're
not getting to the end, they might be jumping off, even some of the best videos,
like this has 2 .1 million video views, but look at the graph. Look how fast that
drops off. Where's all that traffic coming from? The YouTube homepage. Okay?
And then it just doesn't really see the light of day. It might see a little bit
more when it facilitates more of the viewers that would be more susceptible to this.
Now you might think, okay, this is not a really good thumbnail, but the retention
was horrible on this. You want to see a good retention? This is what happened when
you have good retention. Good retention will always be served out. That's why it has
4 .2 million views. It actually has even more. I mean, this is like quite a few
months ago when we pulled this together. But it's just like, it's going to always
be served out. And YouTube's going to do this. This is the most important thing.
YouTube is going to say, hey, we have a new viewer that just watched Matt Software
Recovery, and we're going to show them this video. And that's what happens every
day. Okay. So what I want to do is talk about nachos. Because this is the true
moment. Okay. Who likes nachos in here? Okay.
Do you remember when I said, I go, there was some, a pattern of Matt that I was
seeing in the videos. And I thought, this is, this is good. And I says, okay, how
am I going to explain this to Matt? And at the time,
let's talk about your channel strategy. You are a tow truck driver. Correct.
And you were making content and you were going very technical on how to do a
recovery. Do you want to kind of talk about that for a minute? So my first, Ed, I
understood the importance of telling a story and bringing my audience on this
journey, but what I was doing was telling it so that when you were done, you could
go and duplicate this job. And that's not what you guys wanted.
You guys wanted to be entertained and see what we did and hit the good moments
with us, but cut out all the, we had to get rid of the slow parts.
And I didn't realize that. I struggled. We fought over that. Well, and that's where
the nacho moments came in because he goes, I go, Matt, what is your value
proposition? He says, well, when someone's watching the videos, they're going to see
how a recovery is done properly out there. And I'm like, well, I don't see your
channel as being that. And he goes, well, no, that's, like, I know my audience.
I've been on YouTube forever. I know what they want. And I go, well, that's not
what I see. And I says, the value proposition is completely different. And this is
where you want to really pay attention. It was this, this discussion that we had.
I says, Matt, your channel isn't about recoveries.
And when I said that... Yeah, it was a hard... You're like, wait, it's Matt's off
-road recovery. Literally the name of the channel. Yeah, and I says, it's not about
recoveries. What your channel's about is a group of friends that are going to go
help someone in need. And guess what they got to do? Before they help someone,
either during or after, they need to stop at the gas station and get some nachos.
Yep. So we did. So you did it. And what happened? Let's talk about that because
that's where storytelling started to go a little bit deeper. We went, like, I don't
know what numbers we were getting, but we might have been getting 150 comments about
the job. We put nachos for seven seconds in a video,
and we got 450 comments about nachos.
Your channel's about nachos. But no, but it was just like, I says, I can prove to
you because he likes nachos, and he likes Maverick, and he likes to stop at
Maverick and get nachos. And it's like, just show that segment. Don't do it too
long. You did it for seven seconds. And you had more comments about nachos than you
had more comments about the And I'm only assuming they're thinking about nachos while
they're not clicking off my video for the rest of the time because the retention
went up. Yeah, the retention went up. So the interesting thing is you got a pepper
in story and the story should build. But this is where I believe where things
literally started to diverge a little bit from the old way of doing things to the
new way of doing things. We had a very specific conversations about the edit and
what needs to be in the edit because you're cutting out gold. You said oh it slows
down here. You know we need to the job. It's not related to the job. We need to
cut it out. And I said no we need to we need to do a different edit and I
remember this is the first video that my team edited, and I says,
Matt, I'm going to show you this video. Could you tell them what you thought of
the edit? Like, come on. Seriously. Yeah. So I'd been editing these, and I'd been
doing it for, I don't know, a year and a half or almost a year and a half. And
I was working really, really hard doing it because I was working a full -time job.
Now I'm YouTubeing basically full -time also and doing all of my editing. And I'm
dropping two to three, sometimes four videos a week. I am sleeping in cat naps
throughout a 24 -hour period. And I did that for a year. And I loved my edits.
And so I have to hand this over to an outside source someone I don't even know.
I mean, I know Daryl, but I hadn't met his editors. And I get this video that I
would have edited probably 35 minutes long. And it's like, I don't remember what it
was. What it ended up? 11 minutes or 13 minutes or something. And I'm like,
I hate it. I hate it. He did. He goes, he goes, clearly you don't know my
audience because my audience will not like this. And I says, Matt, okay,
let me tell you what I've been doing for the last six months. I've read every
single one of your comments. I watched every single one of your videos. I wanted to
understand that viewer. And I will tell you, if this video isn't your best video
when we release it, I'll give you all your money back. I'll quit. I trusted
Darrell. I said, okay, let's put this out there. Let's see how this goes. And I
was shocked. I was still frustrated because I had a hard time snapping into this
because I'm thinking, well, we walked up and down this hill seven times, and I want
the audience to see how hard we struggled and how terrible this job was.
I'm like, but now that I look at it, I'm like, why would I want them to feel
terrible about watching my video? Yeah. They got to see what a struggle it was
without having to sit through it. Have to endure and skip and skip and skip. So we
actually did the edit. When the video came out 92 % retention rate.
I went to Matt. I says, okay, now we're partners, right? I said, all right.
I started getting sleep at that. No, what was really good was even though that
you're a creator and you're trying to create, and even though he literally edited
his own videos for two years, and he loved his creation, creators you got to step
back and put someone better to do your edit okay there there are people in this
room that will edit out edit everyone I can't edit but I know when there's a good
edit I know when it speaks we had probably 11 revisions in frame on this one
before I showed it to Matt because I didn't like it and I knew what the video
should be because I understood the audience I understood the psychology. And once it
was there, 92 % retention rate on it. Now, what's interesting is, look at that,
2 .5 million more than normal. The reason why that worked was because YouTube saw
it. They said, this is a really good video. They put it on the homepage. Guys, it
hit trending. It popped off, brought a whole new audience in. And guess what they
did? our average view per viewer before the new editing style was about 2 .1, after
the new editing style was 6 .6. Average view per viewer in a 28 day.
So when they come in, when they would come in, they'd watch a video and what does
YouTube do? Let's give them more videos. So they binge watch Matt's off -road
recovery. They see Matt doing the whole thing, and it was him getting nachos. That's
it, right? Well, not kind of.
So as your views go up, your retention goes down. Okay, that's just one of those
things that happens. So having a good retention, it's really understanding who your
audience is, but the broader that YouTube puts it out there, the lower it is. But
look at how flat that line is. Now, you notice that this video is under typical?
Well, but it's over, overreach. It's far more broader. I mean, we literally did 2 .8
million more views than we did typically, right? So it looked good, but you saw
these little moments. Now, you see these little divvets and ups on that?
We would sit and analyze every little thing. And I remember taking that,
I said, okay, we're going to play it. And I says, look at what happened here. What
was going on? And we'd have a conversation. And then it was like more, how do we
do more of that and how do we do less of this? Because something's going on here
from there. Now, I want to transition because this is where I believe Matt's biggest
skill set is in the power of the story. Because the moment that he understood the
Nacho moment,
he actually started thinking about as a story. Everything's driven in a story. And
so what I'd like to do is talk about your thought process when it comes to
characters first off, because everything is a character. Correct.
And we'll talk about a character. We'll start out with a banana. Banana. So I did
not name it the banana. A disgruntled, a disgruntled.
It's like Kit or the General Lee or the A -Team van, they love it.
And when people disrespect it, they jump in and defend its honor.
We got toy cars that we sell. We have, like, there's subredits of just the banana.
You can literally have over 100 ,000 pictures of just the banana. People are doing
UGC. We have a guy that made an RC car and has a channel that's the RC car,
Matt's Hoff Road Recovery. It's the craziest thing ever. But the thing about it is
if you're a car lover, your car always has a name. Okay? Whether you gave it the
name or not. I agree. It has a personality. It does. And so how do you weave
that, how do you weave a car in as a character in your content?
Well, a lot of my strategies
are just it's just the way I do things. So it's hard for me to itemize I'll do
something and then Darrell will be like, well, you're doing this, this, this, and
I'm like, yeah, well, you're right, but I could never organize it like that.
So we just, It's kind of a David and Goliath thing a lot of the time with the
banana where it rolls up to something far larger than itself and we get it out.
Yeah. And the thing about it is the banana is the staple,
right? When you think of Matt's Offer Recovery, you think of the banana. And, you
know, when we did, the banana had to get refurb a little bit, right? Because it
needed to be upgraded. You know, we wanted to do it. It was a story of the why,
you know, and sending it to Robbie Leighton to get painted because, like, he's the
best painter ever, right? Right. I don't know, maybe Matthew might have to, we might
have to have a contest with Matthew Beam and... Oh, yeah, yeah. Or something like
that. But amazing painter, right? Which led to this. So, Matt said,
we need to get a new vehicle. I says, well, good, because I actually want to
change or programming. And he goes, wait, we're a recovery. Wait,
I know we're not just recovery. But he goes, we're recovery. And I says, yeah, but
I want to see a build. I go, I believe our biggest day is on Sunday and our
audience wants to see a build. And he goes, and he goes, well, good, because I've
always had this idea. Do you want to share a little bit about the Morvair? So
I've, I've been into cars my whole life and my favorite cars are Corvairs, super
boring, I know, but I had one that was not suitable for restoration or saving,
but it was suitable for this. So I said, I want a bigger XJ,
I want it to be able to handle bigger jobs more easily, and I had a vision for
this car. I'd had my eye on this car since I was 11, 12 years old.
I ended up purchasing it, didn't know what in the world I was going to do with
it, except for, I always thought it would be cool to build it on a four -wheel
drive platform. And now I had a good reason for it. I had a reason that I needed
it. And I had, with the YouTube channel, now I can afford to build it the way I
want to build it. And I'll have this just piece of equipment that I want, that I
could get my audience behind. So did you give it the name? Oh, We called it the
more verre eventually. Because the community who says, what are you going to name
it? And then the top comment was Morver. And then it's Morver, don't care.
That was from Colt. Yeah. I'm Colt 45. That's right. But he's from bleeping Jeep.
So we were out on our, we were out running on a trail. And we drove, like, we
were testing it at Moab for the first time. Right. We pulled it out of the shop.
We drove it like less than an hour around and we loaded on the trailer and drove
to Moab and hit the hardest trails with it and after the first big obstacle that
cult's just like oh, I'm gonna care. I love it. Now, we only have a little bit of
time and I want to go through Everyone is a character. So when you think of your
videos, I don't care if you're doing tutorials or whatever. You got to really look
at everything and everyone's a character in your story, in the story that you're
actually sharing. And believe it or not, most people want to see this, because
that's human nature. And I want to share it with you a little bit about Ed.
Ed is the security guard. Yeah, he came with a piece of property. Super nice,
gentlemen. Tons and tons of stories and history. And we love Ed to death,
and Ed takes care of us. And Ed always went out with me on these jobs. And so we
started putting him on camera. He didn't like it at first at all. Yeah. He doesn't
watch YouTube, but he likes to go out and do things. And he's like one of the
most interesting characters out there, his security guard. And so people love Ed.
The first thing that Ed does as his ritual is he says the weather. It's hot
outside, whatever it is. If I want a thousand comments, we'll leave the weather out.
Yeah. And they're not happy. So we talk about storytelling and basically all these
characters are being developed. And then Matt comes over and says,
hey, I just heard a story from Ed that reminded me of this amazing video.
And do you want to talk about Operation Golden Nugget? So way back in the 70s,
Ed bought this Suzuki, JL20. He was going to use it on his mind. They spent all
summer building a road to get it back into a cabin that they had built. And they
took it back there, used it for the summer, parked it, winterized it, went home.
Next spring when they went back to their claim, a massive rock slide had slid down
and completely obliterated the road. It was 100 yards of jumbled rocks, and he had
to abandon it there. So it sat there in Sierra Nevada Mountains for 40 years. And
Ed told me about it. And I'm like, we should go get that. And he's like, no, it's
not worth it. You'll never get it out. It's not going to be worth it if we did.
And we kept talking to him about it. And finally, Ed was starting to see YouTube
potential because we've got Ed on the payroll. And he's like, let's do it.
Let's go get it. He makes a lot of money too. Like, a lot of money.
So we put this crew together and we got this going. And, you know, it was a big
gamble. It was a lot of money to put this together to go and just get it.
And we put it together. We were able to make a few videos out of it. They win.
Well, I want to talk about this real quick. So he came to me and I says, oh,
praise the Lord, this is going to literally work because it has all the elements of
a great story. Right. And you wanted to do it in one video and I'm like, no, it's
never going to happen in one video. Like, I'm sorry? You wouldn't believe how bad I
am at this. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no. You're really good. I says, this is a story
that can really go. So we need a recon story. recon story. You need to go out and
go check it out and see if it's there. Then we need a story about going to the
recovery, but you can only speck it out, but you can't pull it out. And then
another video that pulls it out. Now, here's the whole thing, is the whole goal of
this was to do a clustering effect on YouTube. And it's something that I am super
passionate about. In fact, when I talked about this in 2018, YouTube didn't like me
because they didn't understand what I was saying. I didn't do a very good job. But
basically what clustering is, is when you have viewers come on a specific channel,
they actually like other content. And there's like viewer clusters on YouTube. And
like now in analytics you can go there and says, hey, these videos are, you know,
they're watching these same videos and they're watching these same channels. For me,
I believe you can create your own clusters of viewership, and you can own the
views. And so we decided to put a huge plan together, which was there's a couple
channels that would help out. And then there's a couple channels that you knew of
that we're getting ready to start or go down and into it. We can actually take off
the ground on YouTube. Now, this is what happened was we care about content.
We care about the story. So this is a story that hit when they recovered it. We
got all these new people in different press that was interested in a Matsoff Road
recovery, and they were interested in the story. Now, here's where everyone goes
wrong from my perspective. They feel like every view needs to be from your channel.
I don't because it's about collaboration in the new way,
collaboration 2 .0. So this video right here, look at, we got tons of views on this
one. Look at this, we went and did the next video. Got even down in South America,
they were in Argentina, they really took it off. On Reddit, we were the second page
on Reddit, and then this video hit right here. We got 1 .4 million more people
watching it. Now, the third video was the most epic. And it had people sucked into
the story. So when they watched one video, they had to go back and start it from
the beginning because they wanted not to be lost in the journey. They were pulling
this through. And look at this, 2 .1 million more than normal. It hitting the number
one page on Reddit.
So cool to see this. Now, what I love about this is what happened happened next?
So you want to talk about this type of collaboration? So what happened? Because
realistically, we could have took it back, make a ton of views, but you decided to
help another YouTuber out. Yeah. So we kicked it over to Fabrats for to do all the
mechanical and restoration. All of this is unbeknownst to Ed. We told Ed they were
going to try to get it running for him.
And we were going to do a complete restomod. And so,
yeah, so it was there at Fab Rats. They got 24 videos out of it or something.
Well, you can see they're all, they're top videos right here. Now, this is what,
what's interesting is 1 .7, 1 .3, 1 .1, 1 .1 .1 .1 .1 .1 .1 million. 1 million,
you know, 900 ,000. But new people were coming in and they're like, wait, they're
restoring this. Who's this person restoring it? oh, there's another channel called
Matt's Off Road Recovery because they started watching this channel and then our
videos would show up. Guess who watched time went up? Ours went up. We went from
about 6 .6 when I told you that. We went up to nine, nine videos that the average
person would watch on our channel. But guess what? They came through somebody else's
channel. They came through another thing. They're like, why is this so important? And
then why does this golden nugget? Because it was called the golden nugget. You know,
why is there so much hype around this? And then Matt would pop in every once in a
while and say, hey, how's it going? He'd do a little collab, you know, with this
project. And then this happened. We get, you know, thumbnails at work. Parts are
missing or whatever. But I want to talk about this moment because this is the
moment that I really like. A lot. So you decided you knew somebody from Derby,
he had an auto body place, and he had some work and worked on the banana. Yeah.
Why would you kind of hand it off here? Because you had the mechanics work here,
but here's another channel. Well,
my friend Robbie wanted to start his YouTube channel, and I could tell he was
really into it and we're going to work really hard and I thought this would be a
great opportunity to one give him some some traffic and just get his foot in the
door yeah but what was interesting though what I noticed is when I was watching his
videos I saw a trend with you know fab rats and you and bleep and jeep and you're
all kind of I wouldn't say like serious but you're kind of serious about what you
do and this guy's like half nuts like I mean
and some of his videos that are here, but he did a lot of shenanigans. And those
shenanigans actually led to what I think one of the most powerful things is, is
remember everyone is a character. Robbie's actually a character in Matt's Off Road
Recovery. Correct. And I learned a lot from him. Robbie's pushing the envelope a
little bit more on these shenanigans and bringing the excitement level up, which is
working. And so I'm like, oh, man, now I've got to do that. I mean, there's pranks
that's going on. All the fun stuff that you do. Now, what was interesting, though,
was the whole shenanigans led to more connection. Think about this.
What if it wasn't a collaboration? What if these YouTubers are just characters in
your videos? And you just go do things, and things happen. Then it's natural.
What was really interesting was this. I got analytics on all sides, like all the
channels involved, every single one of them. And there are people finding more about
you from Robbie than any other channel. They're like, I just discovered you from
this painter kid, you know, that likes to paint cars. Yep. And a point like to
make a lot of YouTubers tendency is to look for a big YouTuber to collaborate with.
I've only collaborated with YouTubers that either just were starting or were way
smaller than me until just recently when I had a heavy D. Yeah. But every other
one has been. Well, besides Sean, Bikes and Beards. Oh, yeah, Sean Bikes and Beards.
And I want to talk about that one because Bikes and Beards was an interesting
thing. Now, you might think, oh, jeeps and bikes don't get along. But believe it or
not, when we were looking in our...
This is the moment that I actually loved because here's a guy that literally gave
his heart and helped people for years, Ed. And we knew how special he was because
of the knowledge that he has and he just has a story for everything. He's done
some really crazy things in his life. But it was a way to give back.
And what I loved was the community of all these channels were coming together on
this big story to surprise Ed with restoring this vehicle and putting time,
energy, and effort. And Robbie, you're here. How many hours did you spend on
painting that thing?
Four months straight. And not just you, you and your team, right? Four months.
All after hours. And Matt didn't pay Robbie a dime for it.
Like, Robbie donated the thing and was trying to get like the best paint because he
saw the value in it as well. But I want to show you this moment. This is a
moment that I will always take as one of the best moments on YouTube. And it was
when Matt decided to let in, let Ed in on the journey.
So you want to take just a second before Just want to let you got to watch for
Ed's subtleties. Ed is very understated. He's very in control of his emotions.
But if you watch here, this just about knocked him on the ground. Yeah. And you'd
think that he knows something's going to go on if you saw the shirt that Jamie's
wearing. But hey. He's been calling it the Golden Nugget for... Exactly. Here we go.
Go back out.
Golden Nugget. Oh, come on. You guys are, you guys are funning me.
He said it hadn't even painted.
How to get way in here. I don't know. You trailer it? Come look.
Holy moly.
Way up here.
Wow.
What in the world do you do this for?
Ain't that pretty?
My goodness we've been lying to you Ed yeah that is really nice
when you went up to Paul's with Skeeter yeah Paul had to hide that that in his
garage up at his house yeah like when we were at robbies like everything we had to
lock everything behind locked doors wow all
right
so what i loved about that was the story didn't stop there the story actually just
started. People are like literally invested into that vehicle. That vehicle is like
worth like $200 ,000 that we put into that, you know, but it's made millions of
dollars for everyone involved. And it's just been a beautiful site to see the
impact. But for us, it's not about things, but it's about that moment that's
captured on YouTube. It's about that story that's ingrained in people's minds. Because
when they come up to Matt now, they're talking about the Golden Nugget, they're
talking about Ed, they're talking about these moments from there. Do you want to
just share with you the last big meetup that you had and what people's, just really
quickly, just some of the conversations that they were seeing in your videos? What
time you're talking about? Anyone? Just more about how they're connecting with you
now deeper because of the story. Well, we have people stop in at our business every
day. We have about 50, 60 people a day stop in. Every single one of them want to
meet Ed. They want to see the Golden Nugget. Ed's been walking around about two and
a half feet off the ground. It rained a couple days later. I swear Ed could stand
out there in a rainstorms and completely dry. He was just beaming with this stuff.
But a lot of people, they identify with Ed, we get a lot of comments and people
talk about how he reminds me of their grandpa or somebody knew at work or whatever
that is and just identify with the respect that Ed has for us and we have for him
it's just I don't know exactly what you were looking for but that's perfect it was
really meaningful like it's it's not about the money or the time or anything it's
just about the connection that we have with Ed and with our families and stuff
That's really, it seems to be. Yeah, it's about connection with the viewer. And the
only way that you can connect with the viewer is remember nachos. Thank you,
everyone. Thank you.

