5 Creating Engaging Content Production & Edit Stage

Hey, jump starters. We are ready to start module five. I'm really excited about
this. But before we do, we need to slow it down just a minute and reemphasize a
few things. In module one, I shared with you something that has really impacted my
life, both in business, personal and spiritual and has made me a better person and
it has everything to do with this action plan. Now we put this action plan together
and we've gone over this content and honestly I had a few of you reach out that
they've already achieved goals that they set. And we're only halfway through channel
jumpstart. This is amazing. I'm really excited about that. And to me,
this is the most valuable thing that I can teach you. So if you haven't picked up
your workbook in a while. Please do this weekly. This is something that I want you
to always stay focused in on. And ultimately, the main goals that you want to
achieve, whether it's a three -year goal or a year goal or a six -month goal or
just after Channel Jump Start, that goal that's there, I want you to be at top of
mine. And I actually have, underneath my computer, I have one of my massive goals
that I'd like to achieve this year. And it's just right under the monitor, and I
see it every time I'm looking at that computer. I'm like, oh, got to stay focused.
You've got to jump into the workbook. So I have it strategically placed to remind
me to jump into this workbook because I can tell you this is what has changed me
to help me be successful in not only business, but in life. So please, please,
please, please spend the time and don't forget about it because it's the most
valuable piece of content that I can actually teach you.

PT2 

Hey, Jump Starters, ready to jump right in and start talking about your video shoot.
Now, over the course of my career, I have been on a lot of different video
productions, and I've seen some that go horribly wrong, and they don't get hardly
anything that they need, and Others, that it's just like clockwork and you're able
to get some amazing, amazing content. And what is the differences between the two?
Well, it's all about execution. Now, with the Channel Jump Start system,
we have our title, we have our thumbnail, we have hook variations, we have
reengagement points, we have the setup, we also have the climax. We know all these
things going into it. And it's really understanding our plan and executing on that
plan. Now, there are times that there is undo things that happen on a set,
like it starts to rain or something happens in that moment. And that's when we can
adjust the plan. But ultimately, when we plan and we execute on that plan, we have
a higher probability to really succeed with our video content. For those that don't
know, I'm an executive producer on a TV series that has a pretty big budget.
We have a budget of $1 .2 million per episode. We've produced eight episodes so far.
And ultimately, there's a lot of complexities and a lot of issues that arise. The
point that I'm going to get at is there's a lot of little details that you need
to hit and you need to execute on or you're going to lose a ton of money. Just
to give you an example, if we stop rolling and people are sitting around, we're
losing about $2 ,000 a minute. Think about that for a second. So to really be
effective in your video shoot, we need to properly plan to execute on our plan to
get the results that we're looking for. Now, what you see here is one of our call
sheets that we used for the production for that day. Now, let me tell you what was
going on up to this point. We spent months really looking at everything that we
needed for that shoot, who we needed on set, you know, what actors that we needed
there, what props we needed, what location was needed, and so on. So we have all
this information, and we're not making rash decisions at that moment. It's basically
putting everything in a plan, and we organize it here in this call sheet. The great
thing about this as well is we actually have it by time. We know exactly when
we're eating breakfast, when the first shot's going to happen. People need to know
what their job and responsibility is and when it's expected to complete. Now, if you
haven't seen this, this is one of the most magical things on a TV production or a
movie production. You don't see it so much on YouTube. It's kind of, you know, from
the hip and they're going with it. But ultimately, the ones that are really
performing and it's really pumping out amazing content, they have their own system,
and they actually have the way that they to keep the flow of production. Now, below
this video, there are two resources. The first one is a very simple call sheet that
you can use on your video shoot and have all the little details that you need.
You'll find it below this video. Now, the second one is a more complete call sheet.
It's the same call sheet that we use on our TV production, and it's there for you.
You can have both, or you can modify them to fit your needs, and they're right
below this video.

PT3

Hey, Jumpstar, is ready to jump right in and start talking about bat shooting. Now,
I can tell you that this right here, this subject, can bring more sanity and more
productivity to all content creators, regardless if they're big or small. So one of
the things that I learned was several years ago, I was working with a TV show that
wanted to take their content from TV and move it over to YouTube. I was up for
the challenge and I was able to be invited by the creator, director, producer of
this TV series to come up to a video shoot. Now, I've been on a lot of video
shoots. I've worked on a lot of different things over the course of my career. I
was excited to just get to know the clients a little bit better, kind of rub
shoulders with them and kind of see the magic happen. When I went to the
production, I was looking at the production schedule. And when I was looking at the
production schedule, I was like, well, they have 16 different segments that these
would be individual videos for YouTube. And they're going to shoot it all within two
hours. And to kick it off, there's a live studio audience. I was like,
Holy hallelujah, we've done it. Holy Venus the whale, you're right. Holy rainbow.
Holy hole in a donut. Holy backfire. Holy birthday cake. Whoa, my mind was blown.
And ultimately, I was able to witness something that transformed me individually as a
business owner, but more importantly as a creator. And when I witnessed that they
were able flawlessly to put out those 16 different segments that were ready for
YouTube after they stopped, that I was like, okay, I need to take a step back.
And this is what I learned is when you properly plan for your production,
when you put the effort in time, then you don't waste it on production. Like in
the pre -production, when you're planning before that, you're not wasting your effort
on what to do, how to do, and how to react because you already have a plan. And
I can tell you that as you focus in on the preparation for it, yes, there's going
to be moments that you're going to say, hey, let's shoot this because we're here or
that's really cool. But ultimately, you're going to put out better content. Now, the
second thing is bat shooting when I witnessed that those 16 seconds, now picture
this, the 16 weeks on YouTube in two hours, I was like, oh my goodness,
every content creator needs to do it. All they need to do is prepare a little bit
before so that they're ready to go, so they have everything all set, and they can
actually be more productive with their video shoot. I mean, that's where it's at.
So my challenge to you is look at a way that you can shoot two to three,
if not four, videos at a time. Now, I can tell you that sometimes it's impossible.
The logistics is too much that you can't do. There might be multiple locations and
so on and so forth. But when you can, when you can, you need to bat shoot because
that does two things. Number one, that creates you to be a lot more productive and
you can get more out with less time. And the second thing is better for your
mental health. Holy whiskers! Holy hurricane, what's that? Holy masquerade! Holy asp!
A trick Egyptian snake! Holy travel agent, Batman! Are you really going to Egypt?

PT4

Hey, Jump Start is ready to jump right in and start talking about the Roughcut or
the assembly. Now, Channel Jump Start started several weeks ago and you started to
do a lot of recon and research and you started to plan your videos and then you
actually shot your video and now it's time to put all that magic together all in
one place.
So this is actually where the storytelling is. And when we discussed that story arc
and we talked about the different stages, well, here is what we want to do is we
want to put those elements in. And I can tell you that I've seen a lot of content
creators plan and execute on their plan and they get to this phase and they kind
of freeze. That's not what I want you to do. What I want you to do is take a
step back, take a deep breath. You've already put the stuff together. And what we
want to do is just have that flow of what our plan was for your specific video.
Now, once that flows in, you're able to see, does this feel right? Is there
something out of place? Is there some moment that we actually shot would be better?
Now, recently, I was just on a shoot with Mr. Beast, and I can tell you that this
rough edit of getting this flowed down is really important. He was on a shoot, And
it just felt disconnected, and he kind of turned it over to one of his employees,
and one of the employees says, you know what, what if we threw this here, even
though it's the end of the video, it's kind of one of those things that we used
as a re -engagement before the climax, what if we put it in stage one, which was
at the beginning of the video? And so they had the hook, and they put it as that
first re -engagement point that we talked about of how to actually do the story arc,
and things worked. It beautifully worked. And ultimately, I don't want you to get so
set on, hey, this is the way it needs to be because we have a lot of flexibility
here when we're doing the edit. Now, here's the thing. There are some videos beneath
this video, and it's going to go in more detail of the rough assembly and rough
cut. These are the ones that I personally would like you to see and consume. Some
people you might know, some people you might not know but ultimately listen to what
they have to say learn the little tips and we'll see you on the next video

PT5

Guys, look how, look how big this is. It's so heavy.
Like the more I'm adding to it, the more I'm modulating it, if you will, the more
dope is starting to look. I'm taking this into the mountain soon. We're making a
little, it's going on tour. It's quite, it makes run and gun.
Just a little called just just a tad real quick before we get into things today do
you guys want to see like a rundown a breakdown of like what these are and why
people use them and my thoughts on it so far owning a red just uh could be a fun
video think about it mull it over
who might already be using it, which is amazing, but we just started using it
specifically with this project that we have, the documentary, logging hours and hours
and hours of footage. So let's throw two minutes on the clock and get started.
So let's say you're shooting an event, maybe it's a wedding, maybe it's a
destination wedding, maybe it's a corporate event over several days and you have
thousands of clips. Like right now we have 2 ,000 plus clips, over seven hours of
footage for this documentary and that is a lot of things to keep track of. So how
do we remember key conversations? How do we remember things that happened months and
months ago now that we're editing this project, or maybe in six months, we start
editing, and how do we make sure those things don't slip away? Well, that would be
using markers and actually logging the footage properly. So check this out, let's
jump into the computer real quick. So you can see as we scroll down here, we have
a ton of clips. about 2 ,000 files, six plus hours of footage. There is a lot to
go over, and it's organized in bins and folders, but it's still, that's overwhelming.
You can't just click on those things individually, hoping that you're gonna strike
gold and land on the exact clip that you need. And it'll work, but you'll be here
for hours and hours and hours. Time is money, there's a better way to do that. All
right, so the first thing you're gonna wanna do to make this easier for you is
organize your footage into different sequences. So it's not just one sequence and all
your footage and everything that's happening is smashed onto one timeline. You're
going to want to have that over multiple sequences so it's neat, tidy, and easy to
find. For example, if I want the scene of David in the garage playing guitar, I
can just go down and find that sequence and then that whole little section that
we've built out on the timeline is right there. So that's the bare bones basic
organization that you need to be doing. Now to step it up, to ramp it up, you'll
notice, Take a look at this timeline right here. See all those markers up top? You
might be thinking yourself, Pete, what are those? And well, I'd be just happy to
tell you. This is just every OCD person's dream. So when you add a marker like so,
you can go up to the project panel, click on markers, and all of them are going
to be listed down the side, all the markers that you've made. Now you can even log
keywords, you can log sentences, you can log notes into these markers. So we've
organized all these clips by conversation. Now it's all manually added, but when we
go to edit, if we wanna find a clip where someone's talking about something very
specific, we can literally search for that clip, like we're searching on Finder or
in Google and type in whatever it is that we're looking for, and those clips with
those keywords or those conversations will pop up automatically. So it's a super fast
way to search through all your thousands of clips, or just browse through your
markers and try to remember what were those points, what were those moments that you
didn't want to forget that you otherwise may have been that you're editing this
further down the road. Now clicking on that marker will highlight it on your
timeline so the playhead just jumps right to where you need to be. Now every person
that loves OCD loves to color code so you can go ahead and of course color code
these markers however you'd like, be it that maybe all the green ones are B -roll,
all the yellow are interviews, and all the red stuff is just miscellaneous.
where you want to add one, if you're using a Mac in Premiere Pro, you're going to
hit M, that's going to add a marker. When you go to your project panel, you click
on markers, you'll see it there, it's been added at the bottom. Now inside that
box, you can add your notes, you can type whatever you want, you can add keywords,
the conversation, you can write the whole conversation out if you'd like to, it's
whatever you want it to be, that's where that is done in the project panel. Now if
you want to take that a little bit further, option click will actually split the
marker so you can change the duration of that marker. Now you can drag it to
however long you want. Double click on that marker in the project panel. That's
going to bring up some extra options. We can change it to teal because that's how
we're organizing everything for Tom in this project. Hit okay and you are done. So
that is essentially how you're going to go above and beyond in organizing your
clips. Now would I do this for a vlog? Probably not. If I was going to work on a
vlog for several weeks because it was maybe based off of a trip that we took that
happened over a couple days. And I really wanted to log all of those clips to make
sure I didn't miss anything, then yeah, I guess it depends on the importance of the
project to you. But utilizing markers and utilizing the color code system and
actually going in to log all those things in depth, that's what makes the
difference. So I hope you enjoyed that tip, try it out. If you have a project, if
you're working on a wedding, if you're doing something that has lots of footage, you
are going to love this feature, specifically if it's an edit that you're coming back
to over several days. That's it for me, guys. I hope you like this video.
Definitely blew past the timer I had every intention to make it two minutes. Ah,
I'm sorry. No, I'm not sorry. I mean, I am because it's supposed to be, but I'm
not because the extra. There's like, there's like a group of people that are like,
two minutes, ah! And then when you go over, they're like, why did you go, it's,
what is, I don't understand why it's two minutes. It's what's called to in the
people who've been here for the beginning. Notification squad, they're like, oh, bro,
come on, two minutes is never two minutes. Two minute Tuesday is just like it's
Tuesday. And if you know, because you're here, you're part of the group, right? But
if you're not part of the group, then you're like, this makes no sense. Why is
there a timer? He's bloomed. And then there's people are going back, ah, it's two
minute Tuesday, just rename it. Ah, see you guys later.
of course the dude starts cutting his lawn the second i start recording this one
day dude i'm just gonna doesn't have anything to mow it's full dead it's like a
khaki pant the whole thing just looks terrible what are you even cutting what are
you cutting it's dead bro
just looking around nothing's nothing's flying up nothing's nothing's happening it just
feels good maybe it's just like

PT6

Hey, Jumpstarters, ready to jump on in and start talking about sound design and
sound effects. Now, I can tell you, I've been working in the industry for a very
long time, and this is one of those hidden things that a lot of content creators
and a lot of businesses really miss out on, and ultimately it will take a piece of
content that's mediocre and make it amazing. To really emphasize the point, I'm going
to show you three clips from Spider -Man away from home. Now, this is really to
emphasize the importance of great sound design, using sound effects to really enhance
the visuals, and more importantly, picking the right music. This is the original
trailer about the first minute and a half of Spider -Man away from home.
Thank you, Spider -Man.
That was so good. Hey, sorry I'm late. Happy. You look nice.
Thank you. You too. Thank you. New dress? Yes, it is. How'd you know?
What just happened?
Getting a trip? Mm -hmm. Going to Europe. It's a school trip! Do you get your
passport? Peter Parker here to pick up a passport, please. Many toothpaste? Mm -hmm.
Packed your suit. I just want to go on my trip with my friends. Europe doesn't
really need a friendly neighborhood's part of my
You look really pretty. Therefore, I have value. No, no. That's not right. I'm
messing with you. You look pretty, too. I just want to spend some time with MJ.
I think she really likes you, dude. It reminds me when I first son -in -love. I had
just finished my phone call me.
So nice to finally meet you, Spider -Man.
You're Nick Fury. Put some clothes on. Let's go for a ride. Is he gonna be okay
like that? Might want to turn him over so he doesn't swallow his tongue.
I think Nick Fury just hijacked her summer vacation.
Awesome!
We've got gifts, Parker. But we have a job to do. Are you going to step up or
not?
There's the trailer. It was really good, right? Well, what happens and how effective
would that trailer be if we pulled away music?
That was so good. Hey, sorry, I'm late. You look nice.
Thank you. You too. Thank you. New dress? Yes, it is. How'd you know?
What just happened?
Letting a trip? Mm -hmm. Going to Europe. It's a school trip. Woo!
Did you get your passport? Peter Parker here to pick up a passport, please. Mini
Toothpaste? Mm -hmm. Packed your suit.
I just want to go on my trip with my friends. Europe doesn't really need a
friendly neighborhood's part of my head.
You look really pretty. Therefore, I have value. No, that's not right. I'm messing
with you. You look pretty too. I just want to spend some time with MJ.
And I think she really likes you, dude. It reminds me when I first fell in love.
I had just finished my fruit cobbler, right?
So nice to finally meet you, Spider -Man.
You're Nick Fury. Put some clothes on. Let's go for a ride. Is he going to be
okay like that? Might want to turn him over so he doesn't swallow his tongue.
I think Nick Fury just hijacked her summer vacation.
Awesome.
You got gifts, Parker, but we have a job to do.
Are you going to step up or not? Totally sounded differently, right? It was just
completely night and day. I wasn't emotionally connected to it. Yeah, the sound
Design was pretty cool with it.
How'd you know?
What just happened?
Letting a trip? Mm -hmm. Going to Europe. It's a school trip.
Did you get your passport? Peter Parker here to pick up a passport, please. Mini
toothpaste? Mm -hmm. Packed your suit. I just want to go on my trip with my
friends. Europe doesn't really need a friendly neighborhood's part of my head.
You look really pretty. Therefore, I have value. No, no, that's not right. I'm
messing with you. You look pretty, too. I just want to spend some time with MJ.
And I think she really likes you, dude. I was when I first fell in love. I had
just finished my fruit cobbler.
So nice to finally meet you, Spider -Man.
You're Nick Fury. Put some clothes on. Let's go for a ride. Is he going to be
okay like that? Might want to turn him over so he doesn't swallow his tongue.
I think Nick Fury just hijacked her summer vacation.
Awesome.
And that's dialogue only. Now, here's the difference. We're going to take a scene
right now of all the sound design, the sound effects, and the dialogue all together.
And you're going to hear it right here. I think Nick Fury just hijacked her summer
vacation.
Awesome.
We've got gifts, Parker, but we have a job to do. Are you going to step up or
not?
And now you're going to hear it without. I think Nick Fury just hijacked her summer
vacation.
Awesome.
Got gifts, Parker, but we have a job to do.
Okay, jump starters, now this is really important if you want to take some mediocre
content and make it amazing, it's really getting those right sounds, the sound
effects, and music to bring it all together to really enhance your project.
Now, I can tell you, this is something that if you really want to polish this,
This will take you over the edge because it will pull you in visually by what you
hear. Now, you were able to see that example. Now, there is another video below
this video from Peter McKinnon talking about sound design and the elements of it. He
is a master at that. And there's also a link to epidemic sounds. It's my preferred
choice to really get some great music and some sounds. And also, I use a place
called Audio Jungle for those Quick effects. I just love that as well. You'll see
both of those links below this video. Now, I can't emphasize this enough. If you
really wanna take that project, like what the Spider -Man away from home, and make
it amazing, you need to have the right sounds, and we'll see you on the next
video.

PT7

You know, um,
never mind.
What's up everybody? Peter McKinnon here. Welcome back to yet another video. Another
day, another vid. Thanks so much for tuning in. Love.
Importantly, the sound design.
How I did it, the things that I use, the places I got the sounds, and why it
makes videos a thousand times better. And we're gonna end things off with the
challenge, giving away some subscriptions to epidemic sounds that you can do the same
thing. It's gonna be a good one. I'm super excited for the hashtag challenge, by
the way, because it's almost the end of summer, depressing. So we're gonna end off
the summer with another hashtag challenge, which I'm psyched about. So with all that
out of the way, let's jump into the video today. All right, so jumping into
Premiere Pro, it all starts for me where the project bins live. So I like to make
different folders for all the different cameras that we're using, and then just
random folders like MISC, SFX, music, those types of things. Everything's organized.
It's all clean, it's all tidy. I know if I open up any of these folders,
everything is neatly organized inside, ready to go. What is in MISC, things like
light hits or dust or random drone shots or mat bars or a little insert or a meme
or whatever. I'm trying to just accent, a little spice rack, if you will, just
dropping in some spices. Those things go in the MISC folder. This edit specifically,
the whole underwater film kind of happened by accident. So I just give you a little
back history on what you saw Tuesday called Break the Habit. From a nation that
operates on a false belief that were not as important without a blue check or a
first class seat.
It's a social status over a social life, an online presence rather than being
present. That little spoken word thing, I actually wrote that on a flight home from
Finland a year ago. And I recorded that voiceover, the same day I recorded the
voiceover for that little film I made called The Owl. Those moments are important,
but the real moments, you know, the substance and nostalgia in life, it's the small
everyday stuff, the routines.
Those were done within 10 minutes of each other, and I had this voiceover. I had
it with some other footage, and I've been trying it on different things here and
there. It just didn't fit. It just didn't fit. It didn't feel like it was working,
so I just put it on the back shelf last week went out to make a vlog which
you've probably seen by now called underwater photography where Chris Howe and myself
were exploring this new housing and just different ways to take photos because it's
it's difficult so I started editing the B -roll because I was feeling it it got
home super excited and realized like oh this is this is kind of dope this is kind
of better than the vlog so I thought to myself maybe I should just put it out as
its own little video because I'm just really proud of it. It's just really turned
out well, like I'm psyched on this. Then I thought, the voiceover, that might
actually work for this. Because the footage kind of feels ominous and just a little
bit darker and moody. It's got that heavy weight, that feeling too. I thought that
voiceover might just be perfectly suited. After I finished editing everything, did all
the sound, all the sound design, I dropped that voiceover in, and it just worked.
So we and everything off to get mixed, it came back, sounded amazing. It's funny
how I didn't plan for that to even be a video that I was gonna make last week,
so it just happened. That's your little backstory, that's your little history on
Break the Habit. Taking a look at the timeline, this is what it looks like. You've
got your main clips right here, you've got your end titles, you got a couple
accents at the top, got a little dust filter in there, this little thing, added
these little bad boys, you know, those little floaties in the water. A lot of that
stuff was already in the water, which this particular shot didn't have anything and
I thought it looks kinda cool. And then the real, the real meat of this piece
happens on all the audio tracks below. So you can see, there's not a ton. I've
done a lot more sound design than this, but these, all of these things are all the
sounds that I specifically added to make it feel, you know, a lot more cinematic.
That sound design has everything to do with what makes that film great. It's one of
those understated things, sometimes it's not very exciting to do. The more and more
I do it, the more and more I love it, but it adds so much value to a film. I
might be wondering where I get all my sounds. It's kind of a mix between sounds I
make myself, like my own sound packs. Epidemic sound is where I get the bulk of
everything because not only do they do music, like I've told you guys, they do
sound effects as well. And then I've just picked up random packs here and there and
I have this just massive library of the most random things. Like if I need like a
cattle walking, I'll find it. I'll try to, sonar beep. I'll try to find those
specific things. Going back to Epidemic Sound, they have a massive, massive sound
effects library. So like the sonar beeps at the beginning, all of those are from
Epidemic Sound. So you know, you've seen the film, this is what it sounds like.
You get that cool music in the background,
a little sonar beep, well placed, that nice piano comes in.
All of those undertones in the background, all of those whooshes, the bubbles that
you're hearing, all of those things just add, add to the mood, add to just the
vibes that you get when you watch this. Without those, it wouldn't be nearly as
impactful. There's that sonar beep again.
Now the music, let's pause that, the music makes it sentimental. It makes it feel
sad, it makes it feel emotional, which is great. But I'm gonna play it again in a
second without any of the actual music, just to show you how cool it sounds just
with the sound design. Okay,
cool, so that's enough. Let's go ahead, disable those two audio tracks, right click,
enable, right click, enable. So now, all you're going to hear is the sound design
from this film. I'll let it roll for a little bit, just so you can kind of get a
little idea.
It's almost cool without music. Like it would work. You could upload this with no
music. And guarantee there's gonna be commenters that say, I prefer it without music.
And yeah, there's a little bit of me that does too.
Fun
little fact, that sound you just heard of me kicking my foot was actually a low
pass filter I put on the sound of a jet flying through the air,
just worked with the water and the way my foot cut through that. So one of my
tips would be if you're making sound design, it doesn't always necessarily have to
be the exact sound that you're looking for. I talked about this maybe two years ago
now when I was shooting with Jesse Driffwood and he, he did a massive like Ollie
off of like a six set. And when he landed, I wanted like a really impactful hit,
but I didn't want like a typical boom. I wanted like an impactful. Like I wanted
you to feel it in your bones. In your bone marrow, that's where I wanted you to
feel it. I found a sound clip of prison doors being slammed shut. A sound of jail
doors being slammed shut, and it sounds like this. Put a little extra sauce on
those in Premier Pro, low pass, different EQ things. And when he lands,
bam, that steel, that slamming of the door resonating just sounded so good and it's
just those little things like a fighter jet going by like if you hear it again
you'll see what I mean by like very easy sound to find low past it doubled it
split it just a little bit just played around until it sounded right you'd never
know that was a jet
The funny thing is getting onto the C -Doo there, that water splash, that didn't
exist. Those were two sounds I found on Epidemic Sound called like bathtub water
splash or something. I just found two that worked, put them in the exact spot
because you don't know where the water hits. Like you can't see it individually
falling on different parts of that platform. Like you just see water splashing, you
hear it, your brain makes the connection, it works. So listening to that again,
so anytime I did underwater stuff, I found what's called like an atmospheric
undertone, if you will. Not necessarily
like this.
So I just put it back in, slowed it down 50%, put a low pass filter on it, and
a low pass filter. I'll show you that in a second.
Right, so if I was to do that again in the timeline, we've got our in and our
out points, I can drag that on here. Now we listen to that.
Okay, cool. Command J, if you're on a Mac, and I can change that speed to 50%.
Now we listen to it.
It works, but it's just like a little too sharp. It's a little too bright, that
sounds. You come over here to effects. You're gonna type in low paths, drag that
onto our clip here, and now let's listen to it, and it sounds like this.
So that, even listening to that could sound like breathing underwater, like letting
bubbles go. So you could even double that sound with something sinking under water
and it would sound like, let's just say you threw a stone under the water and then
you followed it down as it was just sinking lower and lower and lower. Now
visualize that and listen to this.
100 % that would work. And that's just the sound of someone swimming, but we just
adjusted it to work for something else. That's where sound design just gets very
exciting. So that low pass is a little bit too much. You don't hear the sloshing
of the water as sharp as I wanted it. So we just adjust the cutoff a little bit
until you find something you're happy with. That's good.
Now you've got a sound that works for two different things. Let's keep watching.
There's that bathtub noise again.
little whoosh to go with that reverse clip and then at the end for the credits put
those sonar beeps back in with the underwater bubbles
now after all of those things were finished music looked good felt how I wanted it
to feel sound design was ready to go what you do if you're gonna ever send this
off to someone who mixes audio you Send them an OMF file, which is an open media
framework, I think it stands for, but essentially, I don't have to send Gabe all my
additional sound effects. I just export the OMF file, then he can bring that into
Pro Tools or whatever software he's using to mix, an audio engineer, and he can
still tweak all of those things for me and then send me back a final mix.
We are creatures of habit, yearning for a way to be heard, but rarely stop to
hear. Now it's all done. So all I gotta do is completely disable all the audio
from everything. So we can do that by selecting all of the audio, just coming down
here, dragging a box over everything, and then right click and enable.
That basically graze out all of the audio, as you can see, missed two right here,
so we can click and disable those ones. And then we just drop in our master mix
at the bottom, and the only thing we have for audio is that fresh new track at
the bottom that has everything with it. Couple other little fun things that I did
was color grading this. So if you've ever shot underwater video in a lake,
specifically the one that's close to me isn't necessarily the clearest lake you've
ever seen. It's not really fresh water, it works and it's nice and I like to go
out and swim in it, but by no means is it really good for footage. So Let's just
take a look, for example, at the color grade of a clip like this water, and let's
hide the effects on it. That's actually what it looked like. Put that effect back
on, and that is the color grade we ended with. Same thing with diving into the
water here, before, after. It was really difficult with the shots that were split,
half and half, where you could see the sky and you could see the water because I
wanted to color grade the water, but with the amount of color grading I had to do
to shift it from green to blue, it affected the sky as well. So I had to create
a mask, which let me just color grade the water not touching the sky.
But I had to do that mask for every frame of the water, right? So check this out.
So coming over here to that jumping shot, which was super cool, if we turn off the
effects, that's what the water looked like, but I wanted it to look like this. But
if the whole sky looked like that, it would just look weird. So up here is
actually the mask that I made. You can see that mask as it moves through the
frames
because you have to mask it frame by frame because that water's moving, right? So
if we scrub through from the beginning,
it's little things like that that usually go unnoticed, but those types of things
take a long time, but they do make those projects a lot nicer when you put the
love and the extra attention into little things like that. Now in this particular
clip, I go underwater and Chris follows me down, but I didn't like what it looked
like once we got under the water. Now we'll play it frame by frame, so you can
see me going underwater, and suddenly, that's a new shot. So I started masking out
the water as it just moves upwards, and then my body continues to fall down.
So When you see it at speed,
you don't even realize there's a cut there. It's kind of just been hidden. Your
brain just kind of pieces together. So again, I created a mask, masked out the
transition as that camera goes under the water, to a different clip of me going
under the water, but going in the same direction. That's screen direction. We've
talked about that. Sometimes if you have someone walking to the right, then the next
clip cuts and it's a car driving to the right, then it's a bird flying to the
right. Those things all seamlessly work together well because of screen direction.
They're all going the same way, so it feels seamless. It feels almost like a
transition in and of itself, but it's not. Your brain just kind of pieces it
together. The shot up top, he was moving down. The next shot, he's still moving
down. Cool, and we covered that cut with a mask on the water. And if we go frame
by frame, it just slowly moves up. So that in a very big one,
it was only one, two, three, four frames. And that was enough to get a nice little
seamless, seamless little transition there. So finding those clips that work together,
even though you didn't intentionally shoot them to be together, is something to
definitely look for when you're making projects like this. Now one last tip that I
like to do when I'm making things, like little mini short films or little B -roll
films, if you will, is making sure that music ends when it's supposed to. So this
track was actually quite a bit longer, three minutes and 11 seconds, but you'll
notice the film is only two minutes and 30 seconds. So I just made a little cut
here. You probably don't even really notice when you're actually paying attention to
the video.
That's where the cut was.
Might be a little obvious now that I've pointed it out, but when you're watching
the film, no one's to know that there was a cut there. So I just find a spot
near the ending that I like because it got more triumphant and it started to build
and I wanted that as the ending. And I found the same kind of note. I watched the
waveform and I just matched them up as best as I could. I would say don't be
afraid to take the music that you want and Frankenstein it up a little bit so that
it works specifically for you. That's something that we always try to do with our
videos is end them where the song ends instead of just having to fade it out. I'm
not a big fan of just long fade outs of music, it works, but I prefer it to end
where it's supposed to end. It makes it feel more polished and professional, like it
was meant for this piece. And I think I already mentioned this, but I love to
choose the music first. A lot of times I hear something, and it inspires the idea
for a project. I hear that music, and it starts to inject ideas into my brain,
and I want to shoot to match the music that I hear in my head or that I found
online. So a lot of the times that's how I start things and I started this whole
project by finding that music first. It could have been the first thing I put in
the timeline. So having that allowed me to just edit the mood through the song
versus trying to have all the footage and then find a song that maybe works for
all of the cuts. I always find for me personally as an editor, finding that track
first really helps, not only just with editing to the beat, but inspiring the whole
visual before we even get started. So those are just kind of my tips. I hope you
guys enjoyed that. A little, just a little behind the scenes look at how I make
something like this. Starts with organization, finding the music and getting inspired,
to culling through the footage to find good transition points, the color grade,
obviously, and then a big one is the sound design. So coming back to that, I
propose that we do the PMSFX challenge, so definitely hashtag, you're gonna post
these on Instagram. So the challenge is make a 30 second B -roll film highly
enriched with sound effects using music and sound from Epidemic Sound. Now I've
linked it below, if you're not a member, that's where I get all my music, that's
where I get all my sound effects. A lot of stuff comes right there. So if you
want to sign up, there's a trial, All of those things are outlined clearly at the
link below. Click on that, check it out. We'll get back to this at the very
beginning of September. I want to give you guys some time if you're traveling or if
you want to go somewhere to make it. And then we'll feature, let's say, 10
different artists, but you gotta use that hashtag PMSFX Challenge so I can go
through them and then we'll all listen together. So that'll be cool. And we'll pick
three winners and they'll get one year's subscription free from Epidemic Sound. Okay
guys, that is it for me. Hopefully you liked this video. I hope you enjoyed it, I
hope you got something out of it. Subscribe if you wanna stick around to see more
photography, cinematography, vlog, short, this, all of the things. Stick around if you
wanna see more of that. Be happy to have you. Join the community, join the
discussion. And, and I will see you in the next video.
See ya.
Thank you.

PT8

What's up everybody, Peter McKinn here, and today we're talking about sound effects.
Audio and how editing them together will make your films and your YouTube videos and
just basically everything so much better.
I'm going to start by saying this. Sound is so important. Audio is so important.
We process audio before we process video. That's actually how it works. It's funny
if you think about it, because we can watch a low -res video on YouTube, on the
internet, somewhere, and you can get through it. You can watch a video that's
slightly out of focus, maybe a little bit fuzzy, maybe some shaky cam, and you can,
for the most part, get through it. But if you try to listen to something or watch
a video that has bad audio, or it's crackling, or it's muffled, there's lots of
audio pops and mistakes, and you can't You turn it off, you're like, now I can't
even, I can't hear this, just forget it, it's turn it off, I don't want, nope,
nope. It's so hard to get through something that sounds terrible, where the audio is
just too much wind, I can't deal with that.
It's so hard to get through these things, and why is that? It's because audio is
so important, it plays a huge role in telling that story. It plays a huge role in
like adding that extra to your footage to just round it out and make it whole and
make it just as best as it can be. So today we're going to look at some
techniques, how to apply sound effects, how to make sound effects, how to record
your own sound effects, how to kind of tweak sound design in a small little edit
to kind of give you guys a little bit of an idea as to how powerful it is and
how much it adds to like an overall piece when you're shooting video and shooting
anything video related. This can always help. And it's funny too, because audio, it's
not the most exciting thing. It's not like, you don't wake up and go like, oh, I
got a new lab mic today, so excited. It's exciting getting new gear, but I'll be
honest. If it's audio gear, I'm kind of like, that's because I have to. I guess
I'll buy it. I guess I'll buy the mics. I guess I'll upgrade my road mic. It's
never as exciting as like, oh, new lens today. Never that kind of a level for me.
Maybe it's because I'm not an audio engineer and it's something that I just kind of
maybe struggle with, even myself, self -admitted. It's never been as exciting as
getting a new camera or something else like that. So, and because it's so easily
overlooked, this is why it's so important because chances are if I'm overlooking it
and dismissing it and not excited about it, there's other people out there who feel
the same as me who are doing the same thing. This video is hopefully going to open
your eyes a little bit to that and you'll walk away with some some new skills that
you can apply today. Okay, so I'm gonna roll and edit in a second here and it's
important to say that this is essentially an example of how you can use audio and
sound design to enrich your edit. And then we're gonna go into where I got these
sounds, how I got them, how I use them in Premiere Pro, how you can get them and
use them as well. We'll hop into the computer and take a look a little more in
depth as to how this works and some other films that I've used it on and some
examples like that. So with With that being said, it is time for some beat roll.
Okay, so there you have it. Most of the sounds in that edit that you saw are
completely fake. I shot a lot of that at 120 frames a second which doesn't record
audio, so I actually have to build the atmosphere myself. So city ambience, sirens,
police sirens, that kind of thing, people walking, horns, cars, just air, like an
atmospheric kind of air sound to feel like you're outdoors. I put sound effects in
when the skateboard lands, or fake waterfalls and birds, and air moving through trees
and trees themselves. So when you mix all of these things together,
You've basically created, you've designed like an environment, an audio rich
environment that accompanies the music that all works together to make your film
better, to tell a better story. Now what's nice about this is you can get really
creative when it comes to sound design. You don't have to use specific sounds that
are meant. Like, example, my friend Ollie's off this stair set and lands, but it's
into 120 frames a second, so I don't have any audio of him landing, but I want a
nice good impact of that skateboard hitting the ground. I might search all these
different sites for skateboard sounds or try to find it myself. I might Come.
So then I overlaid that sound with him landing his skateboard and then you get
this. But then you throw the music on top of it with a couple ambient sounds of
outside city life and some sirens and you get this. So you can see how we took
something that has nothing to do with skateboarding or what actually was filmed
yesterday and we made it work for us. That's an example of how you can just be
creative with noises and pick different things that are completely unrelated to the
shot that still work and help round it out. That's what I love so much about doing
sound design for my edits because it's almost now, at this point, it's just as much
fun as editing the footage itself. I'll probably spend more time editing the sound
in an edit, like Alpine Views or what you just saw, then I'll actually spend
editing the footage that I shot for that. Now where do I get my sound? I've told
you guys before, I use a website called EpidemicSound .com. The links below, it's in
the description, it's right in the top line, so you can just click it. Not only do
they offer music for your YouTube subscription, if you haven't seen the video that
I'm referring to, I'll annotate it here, but not only do they offer subscriptions
and you can find thousands and thousands of songs that are all okay to use for
YouTube videos where you're not going to get flagged or anything like that, but they
have a huge library of sound effects. So I probably pull from their sound effect
library just as much or more than their actual music tracks. I sift through all the
sounds so much on a daily basis to try to find the right thing. Every sound that
you heard from this mix came from epidemic sound. Every sign that you heard from
that Alpine Views video came from epidemic sound. All you gotta do is go up to the
window, searching what you're looking for, police siren, hit enter. You're gonna see
the results come up. You scroll, you listen, you preview, I download it, I download
a ton, I've got hundreds saved into a folder, and now I just pull it from those.
So if I'm doing an edit tomorrow, let's say, and I shoot some stuff, chances are I
have my swoosh sounds, I have my police sirens, I have my forest, my beach,
walking, running, just different basic sound effects that I've kind of used from
Epidemic Sound to create my own local library on my computer, so I can reference it
any time. So Epidemic Sound is great for that. They're not paying me to say this.
They didn't even sponsor this video. I'm just a huge fan of their platform. They
have great people working there. So the link is below. You can sign up. I highly
recommend that you do it, give it a trial, whatever. It's really, really cost
effective for what you're getting back. Okay, so not only are you getting the whole
music library, you're getting the whole sound effect library. That is a huge, huge
resource for me when it comes to editing sound and sound design. Now, if you don't
want to download sound effects and you're like, I just...
in stockpiling that footage so that maybe down the line you might have something to
use if you're struggling with an edit and you're like, oh, I have a motorcycle clip
of this guy ripping down the street that I never used. The same thing applies for
audio. So if I'm at a baseball game and you wanna hear the bats cracking, you can
record a bit of audio. Even on your cell phone, you can just pull it out, record
a little bit of that room tone. Something is better than nothing. Now for this,
specifically, if you wanna get a little more high tech and a little more advanced,
you can buy something called an H4N field recorder. Now, these field recorders are
awesome. You can do a whole lot of stuff with them. You can plug two different
live mics into them. You can record audio through it. You can record audio with it.
Very versatile thing to have as a filmmaker. So I bring it with me in case I ever
need to run an interview with two mics, but at the same time, I bring it with me
to record room tone and record the environment around me. So yesterday, We were
hiking through these waterfalls. I took it out, I put my little windstock on it, a
dead cat, I think this one's called the Chewbacca, and then I just walked around
and recorded audio of the stream. I recorded audio of these waterfalls. I recorded
audio of the forest and just the ambient atmosphere that I was in, so I had true
sounds from the footage itself that was way higher quality than what my mic would
have picked up from the camera. Another interesting way to play with sound and sound
design is to match the audio to the camera movement. Okay, so for example,
the spin transition. If it had just been the spin transition like this, it looks
cool, but there's just, it's missing something. You would know, you would watch that
edit through and be like, that was cool. But because I put that swoosh in there,
sometimes I do my own sound effects, but because I put that in there, it just
completely changes it. Now listen, that looks and sounds way more complete.
So matching your sound to what's happening on screen is a big win. Same thing with
when he all these off that stair set, I drop the music, have the siren in the
background, and I put a sound effect of like bullet time or slow motion. This is
what the sound effect sounds like. So I threw that over top of the footage to kind
of accentuate the fact that everything has just slowed down. You can visually see
that it's slowed down, but because I've given you that audio now to also listen to,
it just enhances, it just rounds the thing out, it just makes it more rich, it
makes it worth rewinding and watching again versus just nothing. So matching sound
effects to screen actions, be it that it's something that amplifies that screen
action or makes it more impactful, you And look through your footage and say, okay,
what do I have here that I can use to really amplify with some sound effects? What
can I use sound wise that's going to really make this footage stand out and look a
lot better just based off the fact that I've enriched it with sound? And when
you're doing interviews or something that's not as exciting as building sound around
a really fun edit with great footage and you're just doing some talking head stuff,
it's still just as important to get room tone and to get good clean audio. Because
if you didn't have good audio, like I said, we process that first. example of this
mic that I
So that's it for me today, guys. I hope you enjoyed this video on audio and sound
design and sound effects. I had a blast making it because it's something that I'm
passionate about. It's a really fun topic and it's also a really, really important
topic. So check out that site. I hope you guys got some insight. I hope you're
inspired to get out there and shoot your footage, but record your audio with just
as much passion as you are for the video aspect because it's just going to pay off
in the end so enough of that thank you so much for watching I hope you got
something out of this video hit that like button hit that like button give me some
thumbs up love smash it if you so desire subscribe if you weren't already I put up
videos as often and as frequently as possible hit the bell if you want to be
notified each time I upload thank you again very much and and I'll see you in the
next video.

PT9

So just over a month ago, Logan Paul posted a video of him buying $200 ,000 worth
Pokemon cards. And almost 7 million of you watched it. And a bunch of you also
acknowledged the storytelling and the editing behind it. How the video got you
interested in pieces of cardboard and how we explored the theme of nostalgia. And
that's what I want to talk about. Me editing that video, I want to share the
decisions that I made in creating that experience. experience. So hey, hi, hello
there. If you are new here, I recommend you subscribe. And if this is the second
or third time you've seen me and you're not subscribed, that is the YouTube gods
tending you to subscribe. So join everyone else already has and subscribe. I don't
want to waste any more time. Let's just get straight into the breakdown. I actually
wanted to establish the theme of nostalgia in this video as soon as possible. That
actually was the big question I constantly ask myself, How can I, as an editor,
present the same excitement that Logan had when filming this video? And if I was to
emphasize that feeling nostalgia, we would relate to him so much more because of it.
And so by me, opening the video, the first thing that you hear is the same sound
effect from the classic Game Boy game when you capture a Pokemon or you beat a
trainer. If you played those games, that victory sound is ingrained in our mind and
an absolute representation of our childhood. And it potentially being the first time
we've heard that sound in years, that nostalgic feeling has just slapped you in the
face. And even further pushing on to that nostalgic exploration. That's why we
exclusively show old classic Pokemon footage and characters. That's nostalgic. That's
why the text conversations are shown in the same way we first meet Professor Oak.
That's nostalgic. That's why most times to see a Pokemon card, I played the same
Game Boy sound too. That's nostalgic. And through that theme, we now find Logan's
story even more relatable. Now coming back on these visual assets of these videos, I
want to talk about how I made these really great images. Actually, I lied.
I did not make these. I had a schedule, a deadline. Logan gave me all of this
footage and a script and told me to edit it in four days. When realistically, I
needed at least a week and a half. I've said this on a previous video. Always hire
a lazy person because they will find the quickest way to do it. I did not have
time to build these visual assets from the ground up. I had to be lazy. So all I
did was a quick Google search and found a Photoshop template of the Game Boy. I
did not create any of those assets. I simply found people who had already done the
hard part. I was lazy or optimized. It is incredibly important as an editor to
always find ways on how to optimize your time. Because it's often impossible to
predict where something else is gonna demand a lot of it. I was on schedule. Since
I just spent what feels like two to three minutes from just our opening sequence,
let's skip ahead a little bit. So the first thing I did was find an expert. Crazy,
bro. I feel like I'm delivering me drugs. This feels like I'm trafficking a kilo,
but like the price is actually probably more than a kilo by weight. Look at this,
look at this. Meet Jake, a collectible guru. Now first, yes, the choice of music is
actually really important here. First of all, those plucky strings bring in that
interesting, childlike, inquisitive, well, curiosity.
So again, I'm already reiterating that theme of nostalgia. But actually, one of the
most important moments I want to highlight here was me foreshadowing Logan's obsession
with the Charizart. is also my
you pay more attention to it I did that again when showing those series of Pokemon
cards all of these cards are shown at exactly 19 frames but that Charazard card was
shown for over 40 frames it's considerably longer and you will subconsciously pick
that up that this is important information I am setting up a Charazard card as a
character itself this is beautiful this is the one yeah This is the one. The Holy
Grail of cards. This is a... We are now, again, reiterating and developing the
character of that Charazard. And it's important for me to point out that was
actually the only conversation that we had in this edit. They talked about many
different cards and their values. But if we were to be also developing the
characters of Blast Toys and Venusaur on top of this video, that would have been a
massive risk of making this video bloated. And so it was effective for us to hyper
focus on just the Charizade being, well, the McGuffin of this video. Moving on from
that, I actually want to show a little bit of this next scene without the dialogue.
I wanted to just hear the music track. Listen closely.
The timing of this music doesn't make sense. Instruments come out of nowhere,
crescendos just happen randomly.
It goes against every rule of music ever. It's important to ensure that the music
track does not dictate your cuts. I got these dialogue on -screen moments that I
wanted in this montage, but the timing of the music track didn't initially match it.
And so by me brutally cutting the music track to match the dialogue. And once you
are hearing the dialogue, you don't hear the poor timing of the music. First
edition, Yellow Cheeks, Pikachu. $3 ,000 card right here. Don't mind the fighting. I'm
like officially a collector. As my collection grew, so did my excitement for the
hobby. I started watching Pokemon. By the way, if you do actually want to hear this
full sequence with the poorly timed music, I have made a post of it on my
Instagram. So make sure you do follow me there, and I We'll be posting more little
cheeky behind the scenes editing there as well. Slabs on slabs, look at signs, sign,
sign and sketch. Pop one, pop one. This is the only one in the fucking world. They
filmed for over two hours. But coming back to the point of having the option of
making Blast toys and Venusaur influencing character in this video but deciding not
to avoid to becoming bloated, This is the exact same reason. There was some great
stuff in there, but they would have been subplots that would have bloated this
video. It doesn't matter. We're focusing on Pisa Tens and a Charazard. That's it,
get out. And again, also speaking of story, this next moment was really important
for me to get right. And so when I noticed this really nice, little short, intimate
moment of Logan lovingly looking at that booster box, I saw that as an incredible
opportunity to start to develop his obsession for them. So what I did, I chose to
use an optical flow and slow down this moment down to 18 % of its original speed.
And we now get to witness an extension of that intimate moment that Logan had
lovingly looking at those boxes. And from that intimate moment, we cut to the first
reveal of the CGI Charazard, like as if we're taking a peek into Logan's imagination
for what's potentially in that box. This type of editing is called the Coolershov
effect, where the editing brings meaning from the interaction or cutting together of
two sequential shots. Now I hope you remember that earlier in this video I talked
about how an editor should optimize their time. It's unfortunate though that I failed
to follow my own advice. When I came up with the idea of making these 3D CGI
Charazard cards, I arrogantly thought despite zero experience in 3D modeling that I
could do this myself. I am genuinely curious in developing 3D modeling skills, and
so I took this opportunity to do that. But that is actually my mistake. Reminder,
I'm under a deadline, and now I'm going to do something that I have zero experience
in. So I then spent over eight hours of time that I didn't have, trying to have
basic understanding of software blender. But after those eight hours, I still couldn't
even figure out how to move the bloody camera. I failed and wasted all of that
time. Time I did not have. I admitted defeat and hired a genuinely experienced 3D
model editor to do this. All I had to do was send him some reference shots and by
next morning he sent me those shots ready to go. That is a great optimization of
time that I failed to do. So Joe Murayama, thank you so much for saving my ass.
Moving on from that, I actually want to start telling the story of another big
disagreement that me and Logan had when creating this video. But yeah, at the time,
boxes. Which is not the emotion that Logan felt when buying these boxes. His
personal experience was this was even more exciting for him. He was ecstatic to be
spending over $15 ,000 buying these boxes. Now Logan was under the assumption that I
would represent that excitement as well. But it's interesting because when I was
reviewing the footage, I didn't feel that excitement at all. I personally started
getting concerned for him. Most of us don't have hundreds of thousands of dollars to
spend on cards. His actions are no longer relatable so
Don, bro. George's questions and his expression of doubt would not have been as
engaging or interesting if the sequence leading up to it maintain that childhood
excitement. Me and Logan had this discussion. But once I explained myself, Logan then
came to understand why expressing doubting concern is actually a far more interesting
storytelling direction rather than maintaining that excitement that he was having. It
was better for us as an audience to be observers. The rest of the video is pretty
self -explanatory. The auction for the cards is happening. I set up some dramatic
drums to make it more exciting.
Pretty basic. Let's move on. There's some talking heads. That's pretty self
-explanatory. That pretty much summarizes how I concluded the rest of the video. But
the point I want to end on is to actually highlight the fact that Logan's live
stream with him opening up this booster box is as of now 10 million views.
And a testament to how powerful storytelling can be. Telling and sharing your story
is the best way of getting people excited and interested in your life, which is why
10 million people saw it. And that's important to point out because a couple weeks
later, there was another live stream of someone else opening a first edition Pokemon
box set. However, that was the first appearance of it. It came out of nowhere. He
didn't prelude this live stream with a story and him sharing his excitement to what
this box means to him. And that's why as that live stream was happening, only 5
,000 people watched it. We didn't care. It wasn't until during the live stream that
they discovered that the box was a fake. They got scammed. Because of that, a story
was then made. People then got engaged. How you choose to share your story,
your journey will dictate how many people are interested when you get to the
destination. And so when during that live stream Logan pulled out that Charazard, he
reached the destination, everyone lost their fucking minds. And for me, when that
happened, who's been also invested in this story, was a genuinely intense emotional
experience. It goes to show actually why even though it's just YouTube content, I
genuinely love building and creating these stories. And for Logan to be making these
stories and for me to be celebrating and supporting his experiences is such a great
privileged job to have. I mean, Christ, I mean, I'm literally off script right now.
It's like, Jesus Christ, like, I'm getting emotional talking about Pokemon cards.
Like,
what an interesting world and life this is. But I think it just comes down to just
my love of storytelling. I'm generally not sure how else I can kind of conclude
this video after this like emotional moment. So I think just thank you for watching
and I'll see you next time.

PT10

Hey, jump starters, it's time. It is time to hit export on your video.
Now, before you do, I want to give you some words of caution and warning. I have
seen a lot of content creators in this business on both sides of the spectrum. On
one side, they're just slapping it together and putting out that content as fast as
they can because they're like hey more content we have out there the faster we're
able to grow and realistically as long as they're analyzing that content they can
improve but ultimately they're going to come back to this step to really improve
their content so let's like hedge our bets a little bit and then on the other ends
of the spectrum is content creators that spend way too much time editing and not
even hitting that render button because they want it just right they want to be
able to hit it just every element just
content. Now, once you're actually doing more content and you have what we call the
hero video where you're putting a lot of time, energy and money and resources into
creating that content, I want you to decide a little bit over closer to this side
of the spectrum. Now, that being said, the channel jumpstart system is all about
really knowing your vertical, knowing the bucket, knowing your title and how it
relates to other video content, knowing how to hook people in, knowing the re
-engagement points, and ultimately getting to the point where we're shooting the video,
getting the video out, we're right here to the edit. More importantly, it's all
about optimization and getting that video to release, and that's in the next video.

PT 11

Hi my name is Scott Mantle. I'm a professional racing driver and I own two channels
called Driver 61 and Driven Media. Before working with Darrell I was locked into a
small motorsport niche but knew there was more out there. Since working with Darren.
We've boosted driver 61 of 10 million views a month and we launched our new channel
driven media that received 2 million views in just two weeks.
Hey I'm Dr. Eckberg, I have a channel about how to truly master health. I joined
Daryl and Channel Jumpstar two years ago with 150 ,000 subscribers. And as of last
weekend, you passed 1 .5 million.
Hey what's up, my name is Brenda Blanco and my YouTube channel is dedicated to
testing and debunking beauty products and trends. So before working with Darrell
Leaves, my channel was getting an average of 10 ,000 views per day. After I began
working with that name, my views went up to
50 ,000 views per day. The very first videos that I launched following the Reliefs
program channel Jumpstar generated over 50 ,000 subscribers in less than a month.
And that's pretty significant to me because 50 ,000 subscribers is something that took
me almost two years in the past to get. Yeah, pretty excited stuff.
Check it out.
Hi, I'm Judo Sloth. I have a gaming channel. When I went full -time, I turned to
Daryl. He helped me prioritize my time, focus in on the right things, and grow my
subscriber base to almost one million strong.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Hayden Hillier Smith.
Bloody hell.
That's incredible. Thank you so much guys. First we're going to make sure. There we
go. It's up there. I want to tell you guys something really, really important. And
I imagine all of you guys are going to get a pitchforks ready. But honestly, I
think we should stop looking at analytics.
I think we are unhealthily obsessed with them and it's leading to poorer stories.
Look, I'd like to say for the record, analytics are great if you use them
correctly. They can show you where people clicked off, who your audience is, how
good that thumbnail was. But analytics cannot give you a hero to root for,
a conflict to overcome, or a story that transforms you.
So my theory is that we're paying too much attention to analytics rather than
transformative storytelling. And because of that, our content is suffering.
But some of you might be wondering, who the bloody hell is this British bloke
shooting on analytics at our analytics conference? Well, hi, nice to meet you. I'm
Hayden Hillier -Smith and I am a professional YouTube editor. I started my career
editing Facebook food videos that amassed billions of views and moved on to making
YouTube videos for a small ex -vine creator, Logan Paul. You've probably never heard
of him.
Together, Logan and I created over 700 videos, almost 6 billion views and 600
million hours of watch time. In context, that's nearly 70 ,000 years.
In 2020, I won a streamy award for best editing and launched my personal channel
Hillier Smith, which is a love letter to editing and storytelling on YouTube. In the
past 15 years on YouTube, I've observed trends come and go. In fact, the trends of
what is popular in YouTube seem to cycle roughly every three to four years. And in
this current trend, which I call the retention trend cycle is influenced most by our
golden god, analytics. But I think that trend will shift soon.
The 2020s, in my opinion, will see the end of the retention trend cycle and be the
birth of the second coming of the storytelling trend cycle on YouTube. Now again,
I'd like to preface this by saying, this is my opinion. You may disagree with me,
but I want this to be a debate. So feel free to share your thoughts whether you
agree or disagree at H. Hilliam Smith or use hashtag VidSummit 21 about whether
we're about to hit another storytelling trend cycle. That said, some of you might be
asking, another storytelling trend cycle? When was the first one? Well,
in 2012, YouTube changed its algorithm to favor watch time. And in those two to
four years it became a wild west on how to make watchtime work. Creators discovered
the best way to hack watchtime was to make more videos. But not necessarily more
good videos. YouTube noticed this and in 2016 changed our algorithm yet again.
This time we were not just favour watchtime, but also likes and shares. In other
words, you had to make good videos. In my opinion, there was one flagship creator
who came along who could not only hack the quantity, but could hack the quality.
This beautiful man, Casey Nice Dad.
In the past few years, if you've heard funky, lo -fi background music or seen flat
lay 80 -scape time lapses or cinematic skateboard montages. Well, you have one man to
thank, this man. His style has reverberated across the platform, and we still feel
those echoes today. Many people copied his style. But the true success of Casey
wasn't that he knew style. Casey knew storytelling. Before YouTube,
Casey was a television and film creator. He had movies shown in cans, his shows on
HBO, and he was rubbing shoulders with some of the greatest filmmakers. His talent
was incomparable to everyone else on YouTube at the time. He had an excellent
intention to his content that we were not able to comprehend. We simply didn't have
the same storytelling ability as Casey, and often misinterpreted the lessons he taught
us as cheap editing party tricks. Instead of techniques, that enhance story.
Let me show you. The time lapse grace was big on YouTube. Casey was probably the
only one doing it properly. Casey's time lapses showed the thousands of people in
the city, all living their lives, all with their own unique stories. Suddenly,
the time lapse stops, Casey takes the camera and pulls you into one story.
His, it was powerful. What did us, the inexperienced copycats do?
Hey, I've made a time lapse, I'm a filmmaker now, love me! We used them even if
it didn't match our story or our environment and our videos suffered. When Casey and
I set used lo -fi hip -hop music, it created this grounded one -man show feeling. The
music felt part of his world. The music, the soundtrack in his mind and it yes and
did his narratives tremendously. And the music didn't just come in randomly. It
emphasized points. It was like Casey was the composer. What did the rest of us do?
We added lo -fi tracks that literally added everything and it made us feel deep. We
added it even when it didn't match our content. It suited Casey, but it didn't suit
us. And then the free act structure is simply a beginning, middle, and an end. Or
rather, a character starts out comfortable, becomes uncomfortable, and returns home
having learned something. Casey did this fantastically. I chose one random videos of
Casey's, and it lined up perfectly with the free act structure. In Act 1, he is
uncomfortable in a new world. In Act 2, he explores the new world. And in Act 3,
he returns home having learned something about the new world and questions his old
world. He transforms.
But how did we interpret free act structure? Oh, just change the tone randomly three
times, that'll do. And we were shocked when it didn't work. Casey taught us that we
could produce great style or a great feeling, but because we were not as experienced
storytellers, we ignored the real lessons he showed, the why.
Casey motivated these motifs. We didn't. While Casey's content was deep,
ours was shallow.
We were relying on cheap editing party tricks and our audience noticed and grew
resentful. They became hungry for something different, something more, and they clicked
off. And the algorithm knew that. Videos would have used dropped off in the first
30 seconds, suddenly became buried by the algorithm, and rightfully so. Overnight, our
opening montage we thought was, oh, so cool, was hurting not just our storytelling,
but our discoverability. what we
We saw merely 40, 30 % of people finishing the videos or sometimes even less because
we were making such lethargic, disjointed and objectively bad videos that our audience
became hungry, hungry for videos that delivered on the title and thumbnail as soon
as possible. We saw people clicking off and frantically strategized ways to keep them
watching. We said things like that sequence isn't working, cut it out, or that graph
drops here, never do that again.
Content became a numbers game. That brings us to where we are today. Retention,
retention, retention. But for retention purposes, I could have just said that once.
Retention is ensuring your video is constantly stimulating, aggressively pace, and
engaging enough that the audience watches until the end of the video. And never once
commit.
For those of you unfamiliar with skating, a 900 is just going up to a half pipe
and rotating 900 degrees in the air. It should be a highly challenging move, and it
should make a good video, right? Just from the spectacle of it. However,
when I clicked on that video, this is what happened. So the kid tries an attempt,
and he fails. Okay, that sucks. We see him try it again. He fails. fails. Okay,
maybe next time. We see him try the third time and is, is it? Oh, no, he fails
again. All let me just see if this one, nah, no, he fails it. I wonder what else
is on my feet. Oh, there we go. Now he does it. Great. But this is exactly how
we were making videos before the retention trend cycle. But today, how dare you make
me watch this kid attempt five times when you've already told me he's going to do
it in the title. days, you would cut out those failed attempts and immediately start
with a successful one. Because that's what the audience wants. Immediacy,
quickness, delivery, spectacle.
The spectacle is actually a huge component of the retention trend cycle. We are
always buying the most expensive thing, doing the most dangerous thing, or taking the
biggest swing that we possibly can. Contrastes with Casey Neistadt who routinely
showed us going to the dentist opening a or and opening his mail. Normal people
things. Why did we swing from intimate stories to spectacle?
The reason why we saw spectacle got us the click and the math told us that we
were right. We saw an overwhelming and aggressive action would have them watch the
whole video. And the math told us that we were right. We saw that the majority of
audiences liked our larger -in -life concepts but didn't care about our personal lives.
And the math told us that we were right.
We truly abandoned stories. My theory is, While being arty like Casey didn't work,
we swam the other way to math. We switched from right brain to left.
Click V -rate and analytics or graphs. It's data. It's something to look at. It's
easier to interpret data than understand storytelling.
Data is easier to calculate than human connection. Data cannot quantify emotions.
And I have to wonder, in swinging to retention and spectacle, did we lose the craft
of storytelling and emotion? Or did we ever learn it? I'd like to argue
storytelling, or how I like to call it transformative content, is at the lowest it
has been on YouTube. But some of you might be saying, retention's not so bad,
it's working for me. People are watching and I'm making money. Well, they may watch
the whole video and you have that data, but analytics cannot tell you how much of
an emotional impact that video gave. So we don't focus on it.
We've not learned how to tell good stories. We've learned how to tell condensed
ideas. And since analytics cannot give data on emotions,
we've decided it was easy to not show emotion at all.
In this retention trend cycle, we are dying to know how to appeal to the most
people possible, as fast as possible. We've experienced fast fashion and fast food.
I'd like to argue that the current trend is fast YouTube. I'm calling out some of
my friends by the way, I'm really sorry.
But just like you shouldn't have a cheeseburger every day for breakfast, lunch and
dinner, you shouldn't have fast YouTube all the time. The problem is it's as if
you're in a grocery store and the only options of burger and pizza. No one's making
anything else. Let me show you. There are actually a lot of great videos on my
video ideas on my YouTube page. Some of them are fantastic ideas and they are
packaged fantastically, amazing title and thumbnail. They're like an appetizing burger
picture on the menu. But when I consume that video, am I left satisfied?
Am I transformed? Did I learn something? Is the protagonist of the video transformed?
Do I have a new insight about myself that the video gave me? Most times, I'd
answer no I'm left feeling it's if I ordered dominoes hungover I'm full but also
with that sloppy feeling that it could have been something more let me give you
some examples I bought X expensive thing wow he bought that thing and no
transformation I did X really dangerous thing wow she did that dangerous thing and
no transformation I'm so hungry for transformative content,
but it's not out there for me. Instead of story, we are focusing on spectacle.
We have a lot of great ideas, and that's about it. To put it simply,
if people watch a content and say, that was a good idea, that's not good enough.
If people watch a content and say, wow, that really changed me, then that is what
you should aim for.
Good ideas are a great starting point, but the idea must mature throughout the
video. After all, a Big Mac still has lettuce in it. To those analytics obsessed to
people, those desperate to shortcut to that juicy 70 % retention, I'd like to give
you some perspective. Our storytelling is so bad on YouTube right now. It's as if
we meet Frodo and then we immediately cut to him on top of Mordor.
Our story turning is so bad it's as if Beth Harmon wins her first chess match and
then the series just ends. Our story is so bad it's as if Harry Potter discovers
he's a wizard and we cut to him immediately defeating Voldemort in the Battle of
Hogwarts. Spoiler alert, by the way.
YouTubers nowadays are so invested in getting the audience to the destination,
they are not investing time in the journey. And that's bad.
This is the hero's journey. And if you don't know it, write this down. Or take
pictures, please take pictures on this one, it's really important. The hero's journey
can be found across all the, can be found across the world from everything to myths
to books to film and TV the hero's journey is Luke Skywalker Katnais Everdeen Harry
Potter and hopefully if you take my advice from this speech you and your YouTube
channel too as I keep saying many videos in the retention trend cycle have a hero
and they answer the call to adventure and then the video just ends They never
return home transformed. To say this in another way, there's no act free.
And to quote many screenwriters in LA, if you have an act free problem, you have
an act one problem.
The common misconception of retention is to make it shorter. Instead, I think we
need to tell it better.
Hold for dramatic pause. I'm going to show you how to tell it better.
We have to set up themes and motives in Act 1 that have a payoff in Act 3. Those
themes are a hero you can root for. Ideally, this is you, the protagonist of the
video. But we need to know why we can root for you. We don't just automatically
root for you. Remember, audiences are going to have to invite you back into their
homes, week after week, video after video, there has to be something about you that
makes them stick around. An overarching conflict. You need to have something that you
need to overcome. And this has to be the overarching narrative of your channel. To
put it in TV words, this is the conflict that lasts the entire season and not just
an episode. Beth Harmon needs to overcome her addiction. Ms. Maisel needs to break
out of being a housewife. Walter White needs to make preparations for his death.
These things last throughout your channel, and they will keep me coming back.
An objective. Okay, so you've got a character you can root for, and they have this
conflict in their lives. Now they have to want something badly.
And if they don't get it, All hell breaks loose. The objective is the trackable
goal that they are pursuing, and it should be clear in the titan and thumb now. I
trained like Dwayne the Rock Johnson. I made the world's largest pizza. It's
trackable, but it's not emotional.
The why is the emotional part. And most content on YouTube completely skips the why.
Frankly, your want isn't exciting enough. I need to know your.
thing because when I grew up, no, I need to do X dangerous thing because I grew
up awkward and this will make me popular. I need to do X dangerous thing to prove
that I am more than my past. I need to buy X expensive things so maybe my crush
will finally notice me. Look into yourself and find the vulnerable part of your
story. Be your own therapist. That is your why.
And by the way, I need to do X dangerous thing because I need to prove that I'm
more than my past is literally every Loganpool boxing video.
Stakes. An objective is what you want. Stakes are what happens if you don't get
what you want. It's not just I have to do X in 24 hours. If I don't do X in 24
hours, something bad happens. And by the way, make it realistic.
Not just I'll delete my YouTube channel because we know you won't. Sometimes the
mere threat of embarrassment or failure is enough to motivate stakes. And actually,
it might be more interesting if we see you fail. The best way to do your objective
and stakes is this. Why you're in pre -production of your video? Ask yourself these
questions. What do I want? Why? What happens if I don't get what I want?
And what will I do to get what I want? If your objective is to find the best
sandwich in Los Angeles and you're in Florida, would you fly to Los Angeles? If you
didn't have a plane, would you drive? Walk? Why Los Angeles? Did your parents take
you there as a child and it reminds you of a time when you were young and happy?
Do you fantasize about eating the same sandwich that Marilyn Monroe or Walt Disney
once ate? What happens if you find a best sandwich and the store is closed? Will
you bang on the door, cry privately on your car? Will you go back home and make a
dupe of the sandwich? All of these questions flesh out your objective.
And if you do the deep work on your objective, your audience will not only have a
high retention, you will be invigorated during your shoot.
watching your video. That information is impossible for a computer to tell.
Honestly, I wish we had analytics that could track people's emotions, but I think
that might be a huge privacy invasion. But because we don't have that data,
we're not able to learn if the emotion we're expressing is working. So it's easier
if we don't express emotion at all.
But do you know what happens to people who don't express emotion? They don't mature.
And their content fails to mature too. And this is the trap that we are in. The
trap that denies emotions, storytelling and transformation.
You may be wondering, sure, the hero's journey works for Harry Potter or for
Catniss, but it won't work for me because I'm a YouTuber. YouTubers aren't making
fiction, we're shooting our lives. We aren't filming characters, we're filming people.
To those people, I'd like to point you to YouTube's close cousin, reality TV.
Reality TV has been using the hero's journey for years, and because of that, their
content is addictive. Seriously, the other night, I decided to watch one episode at
the Great British Baking Show, and I accidentally watched four. Why? Because their
storytelling kept my attention.
If you are not watching reality TV, you need to start. Reality TV often only has
several seconds to get us to root for an entire cast of characters. And how do
they do that? The Hero's Journey. Too Hot to Handle. Too Hot to Handle!
Too Hot to Handle introduces us to 12 singles who are commitment foes. Their
introductions are littered with talking heads that are almost cringe. I'm a feminist
because it helps get me laid or my ideal partner is dumb so they forget to call
me. These introductions are not flattering, but they are important.
They show that these people have room to grow. They set up rules in Act 1 that
will change in Act 3. When these characters finally transform and realize that there
is more to one -night stance. Queer Eye is a great example of the hero's journey,
but not in the way that you think. You see, the Fab Five are not the hero. They
are actually the mentor. Quirai relies on a hero of the week, and they always show
this hero in a beautifully broken before. They show a protagonist who always puts
himself second, who doesn't think they are worthy of self -care, grooming, or fine
foods. These mentors must initiate the call to adventure,
so by the end, the hero realizes that they were always beautiful, and they just
need to realize that they were worthy of being beautiful. Anthony Bourdain is a
great example of the hero's journey. He always sets up a city that is in the midst
of losing its identity, whether it's through politics, gentrification, or war. But
food is always the elixir that people used to return to their identity. By
connecting to people through food, Anthony sees what was once a daunting, distant
city as something personal and close. Anthony always learns something deep and
personal about that city, and because of that, he returns home transformed.
It is clear that the hero's journey does not have to only apply to works of
fiction. It can apply to reality and documentary content like Too Hot to Handle,
Quirai, and even YouTube. In fact, I'd like to give you a case study of one
channel that uses the hero's journey with great results. I am proud to say that
Logan Paul currently has 70 % retention consistently across all of his videos.
Don't believe me. Here's a graph.
Logan's going to be pissed. I show you all of that, but we are very proud of
this. This is something that took a lot of trial and error to get to. And I guess
you're wondering, how did we use analytics to get to that number? In preparation for
a speech, I asked Logan, do you look at analytics? Do you, and do you want to
know what he said? Nah.
He told me he never looks at them. Instead of becoming obsessed with analytics,
Logan became obsessed with storytelling. And he and I have used a technique described
earlier, and we've achieved the same results as the channels that are stalking the
analytics graphs. Now, I need everyone to listen to this carefully. Write it down if
you have to. There are channels that spend every waking minute obsessing over
analytics and Logan got the same results from essentially Googling the hero's journey
one time this is why I think we need to work smarter not harder don't rely on
complicated formulas instead rely on some time -tested storytelling techniques in Logan
we have a hero that we can root for. Logan is a lovable fool and the conflict
arises when this fool approaches a world that doesn't understand him. He always has
an objective. I need that Pokemon card and that one specifically. And if I don't
get it, I won't sleep at night. He always has stakes. The Pokemon cards are always
rare and elusive. Taking down a pro boxer is dangerous, unrealistic. Figuring out if
you're the most all of your friends is potentially hilarious, but also potentially
emasculating and embarrassing. But most importantly, Logan's overarching conflict.
Logan is an influencer running from his past. His drive is to prove that he is
more than just that dumb idiots on YouTube. This is the heart of every piece of
content, and it drives the story more than people realize. Because we had those key
elements, we achieved a consistent 70 % retention without even looking at YouTube
studio once. Because people were emotionally invested and he didn't dare look away
when watching our stories. So I'm here to say, if you want to be part of the next
YouTube trend, Get curious about storytelling Read some screenwriting books watch a
video essay and your hero's journey Hell if you want to understand yourself more get
a therapist Just don't focus all of your energy on graphs and maths We don't want
our videos to look like an algorithm made them We want them to look like an artist
made them
We've used maths to master digestible content. Now, with that experience, we could
finally learn how to express how we feel. This is why I believe the next trend
cycle on YouTube will be a hybrid of retention and storytelling. The retention -based
storytelling cycle. I'm coming up a better word, give me time. It will be a
combination of both right brain and left brain, a harmonious meeting of science and
art. I encourage you to get on this trend early, be a trend forecast, a trend set
up, if you will. And I already see the ties of this trend changing. I see it in
Logan, in Mark Roba, in Yes Theory, and I even see it in Emma Chamberlain's
rebrand. You here at VidSummit are in a very precarious place in history.
You can choose to be a slave to analytics, bottling up your emotions because there
won't be any data on it, or you can go deep into your want, your need,
your own hero's journey, and come home transformed. It is what I have done,
and I am here, home at VidSummit,
But I'm here, Home of It Summit, and I'm telling you that I have been transformed.
I have been on my own hero's journey because I, too, used to obsess over analytics.
Now I'm not sure we need to look at them at all. After all, who are you making
videos for? A line graph or people?
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, wow,
fantastic.

How to edit videos faster. 

I'm just waiting for the snow to come, guys.
Just waiting for the snow to come. They said winter was coming. It came, it left,
in like a day.
You know when it's just like a rainy day it's gray and just gloomy outside and you
kind of just want to sit around at your window and
dream dream about things
yeah today's not that day it's two minute tuesday intro
what's up everybody peter McKinn here and welcome back to yet another two minute
Tuesday. It's so great to have you here and see all of your smiling faces for the
first time in 2019. Super pumped and today, it's a quick one. We're talking about
some super secret, maybe not so secret video editing hacks to make you a faster
editor, get the job done, better, quicker, more efficient. That was the word.
You see, editing the bucket shot and spending months on one project, having so much
footage, culling through so many pieces of video and graphics and effects and sound
effects and music, it gets really, really confusing, especially when you're trying to
work fast and efficient. So these are a couple of tricks that are gonna get you up
and running and make your workflow way better. So maybe it took you an hour to
make a video, now it should take you 45 minutes. Maybe it took you two hours to
make a vlog, let's push an hour and a half. So these things learned over time,
compounded into your skill sets will make you a better editor, okay? So that's the
topic. Today we're talking favorite folders, presets in Premiere Pro, and how to link
all of those things together to make you, make you faster. All right, so with that
being said, let's throw two minutes on the clock, and let's try to, let's try not
to stick to that time.
Don't worry, yes, you guys all noticed the new office. It's actually a really dark
day out today, so it's a lot darker in here than you would think. The walls are
actually very dark green, not black, but I'll do an office tour and I'll show you
guys everything and we'll get up to speed, don't you worry. To the computer. So
you're gonna wanna start by opening up Premiere. Now when Premiere opens, you're
gonna go over to the effects tab. That's where all the folders are that carry your
transitions, your audio effects and audio transitions, those sort of things, we're
gonna make a new folder. So make a new folder, let's call it favorite, so that,
you know, that's where all our favorites are gonna go. Makes sense. Once you've got
that favorites folder created, go ahead, find your different effects that you love to
use on a regular basis. Like I am always using Lumatree Color and Colorista to
color my footage. So I'm gonna go ahead and type those into the window here. Then
I'm gonna drag them once I find them into my favorites folder. Now you might be
just thinking like, oh, that's it, but yeah, that's like honestly, the amount of
time you spend going through your effects, typing them in, dragging it over, if you
have everything consolidated, condensed to one list. So when you get to your effects
panel, you just drop down the favorites and everything's there. And we're talking
transitions are there, audio transitions there. And then we're going to make presets
and put those in there. So you just have favorites open and you can pick and pull
and choose from that one location instead of navigating all over the place. Okay,
so continuing on, so we can go ahead find our cross dissolve, throw that in there.
We can find our constant power for blending audio tracks together more seamlessly. We
can throw that in there. And you can just drop that in from your favorites folder.
Now let's say we do a typical color grade, like this office has a specific color
grade. When I shoot at my other office, it has a color grade and a profile. So
instead of having to regrade every single time you sit down from scratch, we can
just grade the clips once, save that as a preset, and then put that preset in our
favorites folder. So when you import your footage like I'm going to do today, I'll
drop that footage in, open up my favorites folder, drag over the office color
preset, it's graded, it's done, all my other effects are there, and I'm already
ahead of the game instead of having to start color grading from scratch. So it's
these things that make you more efficient, and where it might have taken you 20
minutes to do something, now it's taking you 10, which means you can get back to
making more money, to shooting, to doing something else, to whatever. Fast is
efficient. Slow as smooth, smooth as fast. It's a Navy SEAL thing, I think, I don't
know, I love that stuff. So once you've applied your color grade, you've tweaked it
the way you want. In your effects panel, you'll see where it says Lumetri Color or
Colorista. You can actually click on the effects logo on and off and toggle what it
looks like before and after. So once you have those two things, collapse them so
they're together side by side. You're going to right click and hit Save Preset. It's
going to open up a new little dialog box. You're going to name it whatever you
want. In this case, color grade interview, because this was the grade we used on
the interview stuff for the bucket shot. And once that's done, you hit OK, that
saves it to your presets folder, which is inherently at the top of your effects
panel. So go ahead, click on that folder, you'll see it right there, grab that and
drag it down to your favorites folder. And now you can see we have a clip that's
not graded. We come over here, we grab our new preset, we drop it on the clip,
and boom, graded to our liking without having to do anything else. So now at the
same time as color, you can save other presets just like bringing your volume down.
Name it volume negative 30. And instead of trying to grab that little line, like
right here, and pull it all the way down, you just drag on the negative 30 and
it's done. It's at negative 30. So these things just, it's just so, it makes life
better, okay? That is going to speed up your workflow. It's gonna make you a better
editor and it's gonna make life easier when you're making videos with Premiere Pro.
So that's it for today, guys. I hope you enjoyed that two minute Tuesday. I hope
you implement this into your own workflow. There's a little BTS, a little behind the
scenes tidbit of some of the work we were doing, some of the workflow we were
using during the bucket shot and stuff we've been using ever since. So that is a
little hack, a little trick, hiding in plain sight with Premiere Pro. Hope you guys
love it. Hit that like button if you like this video, smash it, if that's something
that you're into, 2019 style. Hit that bell so you're notified when videos are
uploaded, subscribe if you aren't already, and, and I will see you in the next
video. Peace.
Thank you.

Why MULTICAM blew my mind

Good morning everybody. Welcome to a new week. Oh, I'm excited. I just made coffee.
I'm feeling better, and I'll tell you why feeling better. I hurt my foot yesterday
in the most like obnoxious way. I was jumping up the stairs over our little baby
gate and I smoked the banister. I just straight up. Just NFL kicked it. Straight
boot. Really, really hurt in the moment and then I got over it. But then like as
the night progressed, it started hurting more. I'm like sitting there watching The
Walking Dead with my wife thinking, ah, my foot kind of hurts. And then we're
watching the new Jessica Jones. And I'm like, ah, my foot really hurts. Then I got
into bed and I was like,
oh, I couldn't fall asleep until like 4 o 'clock in the morning. I woke up late.
And I was like, oh my goodness, this throws off all my plans for a video. But I
want to get a video for you you guys, so I'm gonna do mail time because I haven't
opened any mail in ages. Like it's been forever so, but I figured instead of just
opening mail time any regular way, I would set up camera one. I'm gonna, I'm think
I'm gonna do like camera two top down and maybe camera three from the side. So
we're gonna roll that whole mail time with three different angles. So the reason I
wanna do this with three different angles is because last week I did a video with
Chris Howe on the creative process and talking about coming up with ideas, stuff
like that. Now we used three different cameras and they all ran for like over an
hour long. And it's been a while since I've done an edit that, you know, is that
long. So I figured to myself and I started editing it, like, oh, this is gonna be
a nightmare and I came up with a way to do it. Now I shouldn't say I came up
with it. This is not mine. I did not invent this. This is not new. I'm sure there
are tons of tutorials online already with how to do this but I wanted to teach you
guys because I figured if I don't know chances are you probably might not know
either and for those of you that do awesome I don't know how you didn't tell me
about this earlier okay what do we need I need this body that's gonna be side
angle this one's gonna be main angle and then we need one more for top down so
I'll probably end up using this guy need a good lens and we'll go like 24 mil and
then maybe we'll go
What's up, we are rolling all the cameras. Give a little clap so that the software
is able to very easily distinguish from all three camera angles and all three mics.
If you are doing multiple camera stuff, you wanna make sure that you have a
microphone either working internally or on top of all the cameras so that the
software can pick up audio points, Mix them all in post and sync it up for you
without any problems. Okay,
we got some mail to go through. Let's get started.
What do we got here? Dear Peter McKinn and my boyfriend, Jay and I loved your
videos when I jumped back on YouTube. Jay for inspiration showed me your channel at
the time you had 55 ,000 plus, but to see it now is so inspirational. Thank you.
I hope you like your custom amibo. Oh, this girl tweeted me this on Twitter. Look
at this. What the heck? How is this even a thing? I think it's supposed to be,
it looks like it kind of fell down. How do I get it? I want to get it right
side up. It's me. Oh, wow, this is so awesome. I can't believe this was handmade.
How do I fix this? This is for sure going on the shelf behind me. Guys, I'll
leave her links below. Give her some love, check it out. Tell her how amazing this
thing is. You have incredible penmanship. Thank you so much. Gonna look at this,
taking a look. Ooh. This is fun.
Let's cut this string here. Inside,
what do we got? Ooh,
is that the owl? That is super cool. How does that even? My name's Ollie,
I'm not a filmmaker myself, but I'm a fellow creative guy who loves photography and
anything with old world charm. Well, that makes two of us. Very, very cool. What is
this? Stampitude. Ooh, wow, what is all, this is such fun stuff.
Wow, this is a good mail time day. Oh, Oh, okay, so this is an owl wax stamp.
Super cool, that is amazing. Thank you so much, that's very, very thoughtful. I'm
gonna keep this, I'm gonna use this. That is dope. Okay, so this isn't very hard
to do. So the first thing you wanna do is open a premiere and grab all the camera
angles that you have. Now if your camera's anything like mine, my C200 actually
breaks my clips up, depending on how long I record for into various clips. So a 17
minute segment might end up being eight clips. So if that's the case for you as
well, just throw them all into the timeline, throw the color grade on that you
want, highlight them all, and then nest those clips. To do that, just right click,
go up to nest. We're gonna name that camera one. Once we're done with that, we're
gonna hit okay. I'm also gonna do that to the other clips in my project settings.
I'm gonna go over, right click on those and name this one, camera three, and I
will name this one, camera two. So now that's nice, neat, and organized. We can
continue and make our multi -camera session. All right -so to do this, just highlight
all of them, right -click, and go down to create multi -camera source sequence.
That's gonna open up this scary looking dialog box, but don't worry. We're gonna
sync these all based off the audio. Make sure audio is what's selected, and then
you can come down to the audio settings down here, make sure it's selected to
camera one. Now, camera one just means
of that. We want it to take our main camera audio from our main camera and run
that all the way through no matter what angle we're switching to. Go ahead, hit OK,
it's going to do its magic, and then it's going to drop a new sequence in your
project settings. So go ahead and delete what's ever in your sequence settings right
now. Drag this onto your timeline. That is our new file. This is what we'll be
editing. Now you'll notice if you just play it back, you're only seeing one angle.
So you and say to yourself, I don't understand, like where is everything else? And
there's a certain view you need to toggle to get into this multi -camera edit mode
that really makes it easy and fast. So this here little icon is the icon that we
need. If you don't have it, come over to the plus sign here. You'll see it in the
window, you can drag that down into your toolbar, hit okay, good to go. Then once
you have it, click it, and you'll notice all of the angles show up as well as the
main angle. So those three angles are showing you all cameras running at the same
time. And on the right is your actual finished video. That's what people are
watching. That's your finished product. Live cameras on the left, finished product on
the right. All you have to do is just hit space bar, let it play, and when you
feel you want to change the camera angle, just hit one, two, or three on your
keyboard. You've got four cameras, four, five, six, seven, eight, so on and so
forth. But it's super easy. Essentially, you're just watching it play. Whenever you
wanna switch to that camera, you just hit number two on your keyboard and it's
gonna switch right over to that. No questions, you wanna switch back, you hit one,
you hit three, you just jump around your camera angles, how you see fit. Now if
you end up selecting a camera that you don't want, it's easy to go back, you just
hit space bar to pause everything, zoom in a little bit so you can see, scrub
scrub that playhead back to the clip that's wrong and just change the number on
your keypad. If it says three, change it to two, and then it'll make that cut for
you, you don't have to rearrange anything, cut, blade, nothing like that, it's
instantly switched. You'll also notice in real time when you're making those edits
and you're hitting one, two, three on your keyboard, nothing's actually showing up in
the timeline until you stop it. When you stop it, all of those to come up. That's
essentially it. If you want to change them, like I said, you can go back, highlight
them, just change the number, it changes the clip, and that is all you have to do.
So for that video that I did last week, I just watched the conversation that Chris
and I had because you can see all camera angles playing live in real time, if
Chris started laughing at a joke that I was saying, I would switch to him laughing,
or vice versa, switch to me laughing, or if it was something of us interacting
together that looked good for the main angle, let's switch to the main angle, or
you want to see from the box top down, you switch top down, and that's really all
there is to it. That's the fastest way to edit a multi -camera session. So if you
are starting a podcast or other people that you know want you to film a podcast,
or maybe you have an interview to do, this goes like, the sky's the limit for
this, but this technique within Premiere Pro, when you are editing anything with
multiple cameras, this is a really good way to see it happen live, feel it, and go
off your intuition. Essentially it's like live editing, real -time live editing, and I
couldn't be more excited about it. So that's it for me guys, I hope you liked this
video. Hit that like button if you liked it, smash it, if that's something that
you're into. Subscribe if you aren't already, and, and I really hope you guys give
this a shot. I hope you guys try this out, and I hope it helps your workflow. I
will see you guys in the next video also I hope my foot stops hurting okay bye
how awesome is this she handmade this hand -made this
look at the back it looks like an actual looks like you just go to like toys or
us and buy this this is amazing Thank you.

