6 Optimizing, Launching & Promotion

Hey Jump Start is ready to jump back in and get started on optimizing your videos.
Now what I'm going to show you is the video optimization process that we're going
to use here in Channel Jumpstart. This is where everything starts to come together
and we're actually having a uniform system so that when we actually set up the
analytics and we do a lot of looking at those little details it's going to make
perfect sense now a lot of you might think oh optimizations for more reach and that
is true but it's also using it in a way that we can gather data and group data
back together specifically and strategically so we know exactly what we're doing and
how we're doing now jumping into the optimization process we've done a lot of recon
and research and video ideas and ultimately we have a bucket and in that bucket we
have video ideas and we've already done titles and thumbnails now what we're going
to do in this video is show you the process of what you're going to take next to
really optimize your video for release. I know a lot of you've already released
videos and that's okay. You don't need to retroactively go back and do anything.
This is just basically moving forward. There'll be some more instructions in upcoming
weeks. Now we're going to go through the optimization process. And we've already
discussed titles and thumbnails. We're also going to discuss target video, what that
means, how are you going to use it, and what you're going to use it moving
forward. Also, we're going to go in depth on the description, the tags, the close
captioning, and also translation. So let's start with titles. Now, I know we've gone
in depth on this a lot earlier, but I want to remind you that we're only
optimizing titles for two things. Number one, for humans. We want humans to say,
hey, this isn't spam. Oh, I'm enticed by this. This is something that I'm curious
about. There's some emotion that's involved. And number two, we want to optimize it
for the bucket. The bucket is key here, guys. That's why we always have a naming
structure in a way that it will suggest video content. So keep that in mind as
you're actually doing it. Now, ultimately, it's going to come back down to this. We
want to create titles that are clickable, but accurately portray what's going on in
the video. Now, there has been a ton of discussion on, oh, that's clickbait, that's
clickbait. No, not necessarily. Clickbait is when you say it's one thing and it's
not. Okay, so if you want something, it's clickable titles. If you want to call it
click pay, that's fine, but basically you're getting them to click on it and if you
reinforce what's that's being said in the video, then it's not clickbait, it's
clickable. And then two, A lot of this analytical issues that you're actually having
in some of your videos for average view percentage and average view duration deals
that you're not necessarily delivering on the promise of that title, of that
thumbnail, quick enough in your video and people like, oh, that's clickbait. So yes,
you've got to deliver immediately on that. Now, that being said, this is the
structure. We have the main keyword and phrase, plus the reinforcing keyword and
phrase and the secondary word and phrase, if you want more training on this, you
gotta go back and watch that video again when we're brainstorming for that concept
and especially understanding the buckets. So let's go through thumbnails. Now,
thumbnails are by far so important because it starts the process. It grabs their
attention, they go and look at the title, and then if they're curious enough or at
peaks emotion, they're gonna go and click on that video. Now, One of the things in
Channel Jumpstart is we need to have variations of thumbnails. And I would ultimately
have two to three different variations, every video shoot, that you can change out
or you can modify really quickly so that we have a process in AB testing. Because
in a couple of weeks, we're going to talk about AB testing, have how to actually
analyze your thumbnails and analyze it in a way that we can actually put some tests
out there, which is that AB test so that you're going to need to change the
thumbnail. We might as well do the work now, then have to react to it a little
bit later because you want to be able to react pretty quickly on that. Next, we
also need to see what thumbnails work really well in our bucket. There is a bucket
system and ultimately we'll see, hey, this thumbnail works. We could do that type of
variation of thumbnail over and over and over again because it works in that bucket.
You know it's going to appeal to that target audience that's interested in the
content in the bucket. And so that's really, really powerful. Lastly, I can't stress
this enough. Always, always, always have your plan of what your thumbnail is going
to be before the shoot and I would have two to three variations so we can do that
split test. Okay, now we're on to Target video. And I think a lot of
Well, let me tell you, the target video is actually the key for momentum.
Let me reiterate that. The target video is actually key for momentum.
And why is it? Because what YouTube is, and we're going to talk about this in
another video, but the way that YouTube operates is it needs to suggest content.
And we're going to talk in depth about the algorithm, what the target video is is
the highest probability in your own personal library, in your own personal bucket to
give the AI something to recommend. And if we do this right, we're actually creating
data points across our content that is just bound to suggest.
Now, I can tell you that the more that we do this strategically, the more of your
content will get suggested. The more suggested content that gets,
that you're actually optimizing. So in my example, doing strange street foods in
China and we are producing a video on starfish on a stick,
I definitely want to look through my library and say what video is the most likely,
closely connected to this in content -wise. Once I'm able to do that and say, look,
it has to be in the same bucket. And It's going to say this is, you know, when
people watch this video, they're more likely going to watch this video. So we're
actually doing this before we even shoot the video. And we're also using this in a
way that we know, hey, this is going to be the highest probability from our
perspective and from our knowledge of our data. That's what we want to use and
promote. So having that as a target video, it has to be in that same bucket. I
would say, do you know what? It's strange street foods in China, the spider on a
stick, because that's kind of very similar content. And if they watched one, they'd
be more apt to watch the other. So that being said, the video that you actually
select as your target video should be one of your top performing videos on your
channel. And the reason why, because I'm going to look at, hey, what's the top
performing videos in our bucket? Because that's the highest probability of getting
someone to click. Like if it is your top performers, there's something about that
it's more attracted than any other thing that's actually in your bucket. So you want
to make sure that it has the highest click to rate, also the average view duration
and average percent viewed. We're going to go a little bit more in depth on that
on the analyization section in Channel Jumpstart. And lastly, what we're going to do
with that Target video is we're going to use it in a card. We're going to use it
in an end screen element. We're going to put it in a description. And if you
really want to get hyper -focused on this, we can pin it.
Like, those CTAs are really, really important. It's something that you, as a content
creator, need to take in mind. And I know that most people want to get subscribers
and they want comments and likes. We don't want that. Like, what we want is watch
time. Watch time will bring us subscribers and likes. Watch time will grow our
channel in the way that we can never do it any other way. So if we're going to
ask for something, ask them to watch the next video. That's why we're doing a CTA
to that target video. Okay, so when we're actually using that target video, we
talked about putting them in cards. Let me give you some set things that I look
at. YouTube has made a very strong recommendation that you put your cards in the
last two -thirds of your video, and you really don't want to do it any earlier,
because what you're doing is if you put it earlier, then you get people to bounce,
even if they're going to your other video, and it's going to send bad signals back
to stop recommending your content. And I can tell you, one of the biggest mistakes
I've seen is people are putting a suggested video in the first part of their video.
And like, people are like, oh, that seems interesting and click off. Yeah, it might
be only a small percentage of four, six, 12 percent. But think about what you're
doing there. You're basically saying, hey, this isn't very good that they're really
lost their retention and they want to go see another video. We don't want to do
that. So we want to put everything in the last two -thirds. The next thing is we
only want two to three cards, max, and one of those have to be your target video.
Like I would not do it any other way that I like to do two. But if you want to
be super ambitious, go ahead and do three. If it's a longer form video, if it's
like six minutes, I'd only do one. I seriously, like you don't want Seriously, you
don't want to send people off and say, oh, see this, oh, see that, when they
should be watching the video at hand. Next is end screen elements. And what we want
to do with our end screen elements to really optimize for our video that we're
going to release is we need to have that target video as being one of the videos
that we're actually recommending for viewers to watch because we already identified
it. The second thing we can do is best for viewer. That's what I found that
YouTube will look, have seen what you recommended and what other options that are in
your library is going to be the highest probability for them to watch. Now, I don't
want to leave that control in YouTube's hands and only do best for viewer because I
want to create a data relationship between video content. And when you create a data
relationship that you have a higher percentage of people watch this type of video,
Guess what shows up in next up. Guess what shows up in the other positions of
those videos. That's how you start dominating suggestions. That's how you start
getting your content out there. Now, this next thing is really important. You only
want to do eight to 10 seconds for your CTA, and that's about the most that I
want to do it. Now, I know YouTube gives you a lot more time to wrap it up, but
I have found eight to 10 seconds. People don't just jump off. They'll actually take
action and go to that target video. That's really important. And the description.
Now, I have seen all these different types of descriptions over the course of my
career. And I'm like, some, they're like doing a novel and they're trying to rank
for every possible thing. And it really feels like spam. Others, you know, it's just
disjointed. They don't do anything. And so what we're trying to optimize for is
first off for humans and second off for that video bucket. So the first thing that
I want you to do is have two to three solid sentences that really reinforce that
title and also reinforce that thumbnail because that's really important. Now with
this, basically we're gonna show some options a little bit later in the analyzing
area, but what we wanna do is use the same keywords that we were using before in
our title. And we wanna use words that are similar to reinforce that as well. And
so that's something that we're looking at showing you when we talk about the natural
language API when we geek out in another video. Next thing is you definitely would
like your subscribe button, but more importantly, you want two to four links. And
what you're doing is these are videos within your bucket. Once We want to make sure
one of those videos is your target video and others are the same type of content
that is in your video bucket. I found that if you want to put more, it's not
gonna do you any good. Like increasing the probability of them to watch, that's why
I liked either two or three, just because you know, you can start narrowing it down
and it's actually your target video and two others. And it makes sense, you know,
from a viewing perspective, they don't feel overwhelmed, they don't know where to
click because there's so many different options, it gives them more opportunity to
click. Now look, we're going to come to another topic and I really don't think that
this has a lot of weight, especially what we're trying to do in Channel Jumpstart,
which is tags, tags for your video. And the reason why is we'll get a little bit
later in this video, I'll show you why we don't care about it too much, but until
YouTube takes this feature away, this is a part of our optimization process. The
first thing that we want to do is we want to stay under 300 characters. Yes, I
know you can do 500 characters. We don't need to have a debate on this. And you
can say, oh, this is what so -and -so is teaching. Well, I could care less what
they're teaching. I have found that less is actually more and it makes you more
powerful when you do it this way. You want to start with your main keyword and
phrase that you're actually using in your title and also your description also it
kind of relates to your target video and you also want to follow this process below
we have our main keyword and phrase and then we want to tag for our reinforcing
keyword and phrase we want to have a tag for our secondary keyword and phrase and
you can have broader keywords and also branding this is basically the tagging system
and don't try to rank for everything in search because that's not the channel
jumpstart We want suggestions. Search is down here. Suggestions way up here. Like, we
don't want to, like, yes, I know it can kickstart it. Like, trust me, I get it.
But what I'm going to show you next is called video intelligence. Now, what happens
is YouTube's actually looking at some different things. When you're actually showcasing
your video, which we have here with Mr. Beast going and buying a whole grocery
store, he's actually talking about what he's going to do. And basically what
YouTube's using now is Google Brain. And they can see exactly what's going on.
how to actually rank videos that are out there and the more that video is hitting
those indicators like CTR and also average view duration, average percent viewed,
those will actually show up in search. And you're going to see things that don't
even have the title of the, what they're searching for because it's actually in the
content and YouTube thought, you know what, this is a great video and it's getting
people to click on it when we actually show it under this section. And so let's go
ahead and bring some traffic through search. That's how it works. Now, let's go
ahead and talk about optimizing for closed captioning. Now, you need to put this
disclaimer out. There is a lot of misconceptions on close captioning. I've heard a
lot of different stories out there. I've tested a lot of theories, and what they're
saying is true isn't necessarily true. Like, I just, I don't get it. Now,
I ask specifically the people that make the algorithm. And we had them at VidSummit.
A couple of years ago, I had this question that come up and I asked that question
again this last year. And they said, do you know what? When you upload close
captioning, it actually helps us do our job better because it validates what we're
actually doing in Google Brain with video intelligence, with what's being said and
what's being tagged, but also in the natural language API, which we'll talk about a
little bit later. But I also want you to know that captions will actually do one
thing for you. And this is something that most people don't necessarily look at,
which is it will increase your watch time. And do you know why? It's because not
everyone that's watching that video has English as their first language or French is
their first language and they need to be able to have that caption or also that
translation and when they want to turn it on it'll actually increase your watch time
from bulk viewers okay so if you want captions now below this video you'll actually
find a link for rev and rev will actually give you some discount because you're a
part of channel jumpstart and this is a service i've been using for years and
they're extremely accurate fast turnaround and if you want to use captions and you
don't want to actually do it yourself This is a great service for you. Okay, so
that's where we're at with optimizing your videos. Your assignment is your next video
that you actually are going to optimize. Go through this process. Make sure you have
everything ready to go. I want you to also save it in a document and upload it to
the Discord group under the group coaching area. So we can actually analyze this and
make sure you have the title in there and the thumbnail. So we can say, hey, I do
this a little bit differently, or I do that a little bit differently. Certainly.

PT2

Hey, Jump Start is ready to jump right in and really start digging into our data
in analytics to truly understand when's the most optimal time to release our content.
Now, with the channel Jump Start system, what we're trying to do here is really
analyze and adjust our content to get the maximum reach on YouTube because the best
way to get more views and visibility on YouTube is when YouTube's actually
recommending our content. Now, a big mistake that content creators make is they make
amazing content, but they release it at the wrong day and the wrong time. It's like
crazy. And I talk to these content creators and I ask them, hey, when's the best
time for you to release your content on your channel and I get two responses. The
first one is probably the most notorious one, and it's like this.
There are so many content creators like Napoleon Dynamite. It's crazy. Now,
the second response that I always get is that they're looking at a tool to tell
them exactly the time of the day to release. Now, I really love Vid IQ.
I love Tube, I love buddy, I use them all the time. But the thing for me is
there's other things that you need to take into consideration to really get your
YouTube video suggested. And ultimately, they're not telling you the day of the week
you should release. They're really telling you the time. And I can tell you what
they're actually analyzing and how they're analyzing the time that you should release
isn't the best time to actually release the video. I've had these discussions with
them. and ultimately we do disagree on this. Now, for me, it's all about YouTube
recommendation and also it's all about the traffic. When does the traffic come into
your site? And so what we're going to do is I'm going to show you my system, my
way to really analyze the day of the week you should release, but also the hour.
Let's go ahead and just jump right in. Okay, so we are here in the back end of
Six Sister stuff, and what we're going to do is analyze when she releases her
content, and also we're going to analyze when the traffic is,
that Monday, Friday. So it looks like she's releasing Monday and Friday for here.
So you already know this as a content creator of when you're doing it. Now, the
most important thing is that you're consistent. And this actually brings in a lot
more views and visibility because people are knowing exactly that you're going to
release content. And these are your most hardcore fans that really can trigger the
algorithm so that YouTube will actually recommend your content even more. Now, what
we're going to look at is when is the best time to release your content when
YouTube's naturally recommending it. So on non -upload days, when is the highest day
that is bringing in the most views? Because if we can bring our YouTube videos to
release on those days, when YouTube's normally bringing in a ton of views, that
there's just a natural uptick on the days of the week that's going to bring in
more views and visibility for our content, that's when we should actually release our
videos. So let's go ahead and take a look at this. I'm going to go back into the
28 -day mode here. And I'm going to analyze this. So Wednesday's a natural uptick.
We are looking at Sunday is pretty massive. I mean, here you have it. Could just
be the time of the year here that's bringing this in. But let's analyze and we're
gonna kind of work backwards to see if Sunday is a great day to post.
So we have Monday, there's a natural uptick. So you notice here, there's Friday, and
then there's a natural uptick again here on Sunday, Monday,
small uptick on Sunday. So let's go back 90 day views.
Okay, Thursday. Oh, look at that. So you see here, right here, where it goes
Saturday and then Sunday up here. Look at this. That's quite a few views for here.
And what I'm looking at even further, and I'm going to just analyze a little bit
more here. So Saturday and uptick on Sunday and she's releasing on Monday.
And there's not much difference between Sunday and Monday when she releases a video
check this out and that's just super super big let's go back even further because
like what we want to do is to make sure that we're not making a mistake but but
ultimately I don't think we are I think Sunday is the day that I would recommend
releasing content on this channel so we can see right here that Sunday is the most
optimal time for this YouTube channel that's actually bringing.
You just basically go back through the same process and see exactly when to release.
So I would recommend to success your stuff to release on Sundays and then ultimately
probably keep that Friday. But let's kind of dig in a little bit deeper to see,
you know, what we see here. Now, for me, there were, there was times that she
wasn't releasing on Friday. And that is a low point. So you notice that that's a
low point here. Let's see if it's consistent.
She released a video, but a low point, again, was on Thursday. Tuesday was a low
point on that one, but she released content on Friday. Maybe let's go back when she
wasn't releasing on Friday. That is a low point in her channel. So you can see
right here, Fridays are dipping down. And Thursday is dipping down here too,
but, you know, these Fridays is a natural downtick. And so we want to stay away
from those days because it doesn't matter even if you release a video, there's a
natural downtick in the people that are consuming the type of content that's on this
channel. So what we want to do is look for the most optimal time for this to
work. And the best one is for sure for Sunday. And then the next one would be
probably a Wednesday because that gives enough time between releases to really get
the most out of browse feature. And then when it kicks in, you know, we have
another browse feature video that will actually recommend the video. So I'd probably
do it Wednesday. And Wednesday, I mean, it's not as high as Sunday, but that would
probably be the best day for this channel. All right. So let's go ahead and jump
in and see exactly the time of the day we should release our content. Now, before
we do this, we have some amazing tools here that really will help us analyze this.
And I need to give you a visual representation of what we're going to do before I
actually show you what we're doing here. Now, if you are out in the ocean and
you're waiting to get that next wave to surf on in and really ride that wave,
what we want to do is catch the wave at the right time. When you hit it at the
right time, it's going to trigger YouTube to really get you a lot more views and
visibility because you're at the beginning of the wave and then you are able to go
through the whole day and get it to the end of the wave. And one of the biggest
mistakes that content creators make is they get it at the very top of the wave. So
they're actually missing a lot of momentum that brings YouTube up to speed exactly
what type of viewer loves that content and will actually recommend it more. So what
I do is I look in analytics here and I look at real -time analytics and I look at
the real -time activity. And this is something you got to do over the course of a
couple weeks. You can't just do it in one day. I want to see right here when the
downtick is. So I'm on mountain time and you can see that three to four a .m.
Mountain time is when it's at its lowest point. Let's go ahead here, three and
four. So it's actually at the lowest point at three or four in the morning. And I
want to see when the uptick is. And so you can see that right at 5 o 'clock is
the uptick. So I'm going to do this and analyze it this way for a couple weeks
here to see exactly what's actually happening naturally on my channel. And then I'll
occasionally look at it deeper once we're able to analyze the right time. Now, we
don't want to just go when the uptick coming. We basically want to get it right
when it's about really to take off. And so as we come in a little bit deeper, six
o 'clock's not the right time, seven to eight o 'clock looks like the biggest uptick.
So you see from here, you got some natural uptick right here. I would do it
between eight, eight o 'clock mountain time to 10 a .m.
mountain time. Like that's really at that beginning of the wave that you can see
here. And ultimately, that's when you start paddling. That's when you start going.
Because what we're trying to do is getting YouTube to see our content. So the
notifications go out and people are going to come on and consume the content. People
are going to see it on the homepage and people are going to consume the content.
And then that gives YouTube enough time to say, oh, here's the type of viewer
that's liking this content And you have all this natural traffic that's coming to
your site. Guess what it's going to start recommending? It's going to start
recommending your new video because you have all this new viewers that are coming
on, consuming your content. And what's going to be what's next or up next is your
new video. And that's where you're going to get more suggested views along with
browse feature. That's kind of the key. So for your assignment, what I want you to
do is go ahead and analyze your channel to know exactly which days bringing you the
most views naturally and the times of the days that's really on that uptick that's
really going to get you a lot more views and visibility so go ahead and do that
and we'll see you on the next video

PT3

Hey, Jumpstarters ready to jump right in and start talking about how to jump start
the algorithm. Now, this section is going to be a little bit different than the
other sections that we actually done here in Channel Jumpstart. The reason why is
because I've given two presentation, one at VidCon, one at VidSummit. And we're going
to take a section out of each of those and show you here in this video. Now,
the difference is, is now that you understand the bulk of what Channel Jumpstart is
with buckets and really understanding the behavior of it, I want you to actually
watch these two segments. And then at the end of those two segments, we're going to
actually jump it in and talk a little bit more in depth. And I'm telling you guys,
This is where we're all wrapping it up in the sense of understanding the algorithm,
and we'll go ahead and start with VidCon. So we're going to go right in on
triggering growth with YouTube. I know a lot of content creators,
they struggle sometimes when they're trying to create content and they say,
oh, we had an algorithm change. And this poor guy, this meme has gone everywhere.
You know, he's trying his best he really is trying his best and it just he's
there's a lot of struggles and take take take take take back a few years and I
want everyone to have some context of this it's like YouTube is so massive and
there's so many different creators and even YouTube has a hard time to be able to
communicate with every creator and there's so many different support issues and stuff
like that but ultimately YouTube is a system that content creators that create
to predict what the viewer will watch. They're very, very, very sensitive to the
viewer because that viewer will help YouTube expand and grow to where it needs to
be. So I want you always to remember what the viewer is. And I just started a
podcast, and I was super excited because we're talking shop, And we actually had
different guests on, like Matt Pat and staff, and we were going in through a lot
of things. And we were just slowly growing our YouTube channel and we're trying to
develop a specific audience. And then we did an interview with Chad Wild Clay and
his wife, V, who are just the most amazing people out there. They do younger kids
content. We went from averaging 100 to 200 views and a couple thousand views to
over 100 ,000 views and that was the only time I was really depressed of getting
100 ,000 views because it was just the wrong viewer that I wanted to attract. So
with YouTube, they're trying to predict what the viewer will watch. And the more
that you can get into that mindset of helping the AI to do it. This next goal
would be How do you actually maximize long -term viewer engagement and satisfaction?
Now, this is where I think YouTube is knocking it out of the park. Basically,
long -term engagement and satisfaction used to start at a click, and they're now
really getting them satisfied further and further down. It's like they're light years
ahead of where they're at. Now, knowing these two goals that YouTube has, we need
to really, truly understand what type of data that they really care about.
Now,
what I'm going to share with you here today is things that you should really focus
in on. There's a couple things that you might not know, and I really want you to
kind of apply back on your channels or your brand what we're talking about here. So
first off, YouTube's gathering data of user behavior and videos.
So let's talk about user behavior. So basically user behavior, they're looking what
users are telling YouTube about the video based on behavior.
And behavior is one of those things that they're really, really trying to pay
attention to and really have a good understanding of the viewer, and I think they're
getting better and better and better because they're just collecting more and more
data, and they're getting different types of points. And it all comes back down to
how is the viewer actually satisfied with the specific content that we're actually
showing them. So we're going to be talking about satisfaction signals. But they're
really, really sensitive to this. So the first one is what they they watch. That's
no surprise. They're trying to understand what people want to watch. So they're just
watching what people watch. Also, what they don't watch, what they skip.
You know, there's a lot of different things that's being displayed in different
areas, different features of YouTube, and they're seeing how you behave on the
platform. How much time you are spending and spend watching.
They're very concerned with this. Now, I want you to, I'm
do with that, but it gives it context and signals back to the algorithm that's
helping that content to be served. Next is something I use quite frequently,
not interested feedback. Does anybody do that? We've got a few people. Do it more
frequently and you'll actually have a better experience on YouTube. This next one,
I, you know, as a marketer, I really love and appreciate and it's surveys. And I
don't know if you use surveys a lot. There's two types.
And that's one of those indicators that really has a lot of weight and a lot of
merit for that. And it's been discussed before, but saving content and watching it
later or saving content, watching it on an airplane is one of those signals that's
there. And then also, there's a lot more longer form content. There's podcasts and
content that's two or three hours. They want to know, you know, are you coming back
and finishing the content that you started? Do you have that active engagement? And
how are you finding that? Is that something that you go back in certain areas of
different YouTube features to do it, or as YouTube serving it again, you're watching
it again, they're really looking at those signals. Now, that being said,
there's always about a satisfaction feedback loop. What I love about this is that
their feedback loop is instantaneous. Before it had to gather data, crunch data,
it would take days, and then it would kind of figure out things from there. But
now it's instant. And it's really, really smart, and it's really predictable of
where, you know, content should be exactly for the right type of viewer. Also,
let's talk about gathering the video metadata. Now, I want to stress this,
And I'll stress it quite heavily here. I believe that metadata is more important now
than ever before, but it's not what you think. And I know a lot of people are
very concerned about their tags and their titles and descriptions, and they have
merit. There's a lot of things that are there. But the metadata that I'm going to
share with you is the metadata that you really should care about. And it starts
here with a thumbnail. When you actually use a custom thumbnail,
there is data that's included with that. Now,
the internal innards of YouTube is using Google Brain as the AI to manage all the
different feature sets that are on YouTube. And
There's one thing that you can use called Cloud Vision, and it analyzes thumbnails.
And they're able to really predict what the content, and your thumbnail is the
beginning of your content, what your content is really about. They can see there's
some joy, you know, and there's some sorrow, anger, surprise, you know, if they're
exposed, I mean, you can get really, really detail. What I love about this is it
gives it a confidence rating, and it's all over the place. Now, this is where it
gets really interesting, and this is where I want you to pay really close attention.
Then they start to label your metadata. So this is the cloud vision predicting what
all these little things is. There's a skin, nose, eyes, photo caption, mouth,
photography, smile, and those labels go on and on. Another thing that's really
important is the web entries. So they're saying, okay, is this found anywhere? Well,
guess what? You know, Stephen Hawkins is, there's a Wikipedia page that's connected
to, and then the creator has it. Then look at this one, black hole. There's no
black hole in text, like for the OCR, but there is the image of the black hole
that's there. And there are some references to it. And if you look at the score,
that is the scoring of how relevant it really is. And how, you know, when it
predicts that that's what it's about. And then it starts to go through all the web
entries, and there are a lot of content that it's able to go out there and to see
what's there, and you can kind of see the things that is associated with that type
of content. So it's starting to create this data relationship within itself. Okay?
Now, this is where I like to geek out right here is a lot of people are worried
about their content if it's safe. I would 100 % upload every thumbnail through Cloud
Vision. You can do that for free. You can get an account. It's really simple. And
you can upload your thumbnail to see if there's any red flags. When we were able
to do that, we've had less of being demonetized off of a thumbnail.
And certain Thumbnels might cause certain flags there. So use this as part of your
process to upload. Now, let's talk about the video. This is where I'm probably the
most excited. We've been using this a very long time. This is something I haven't
really publicly talked about a lot. But I want to kind of talk in detail about it
because the algorithms really care about the viewer and the relationship to content,
and that video is really important. So there is a tool called video intelligence
that really starts to define what your content really is about. And this is where
it gets really interesting. You can actually start to predict different shots. So it
literally goes through every frame of your video and creates the same thing that
happened in Cloud vision and starts to label and put what the video is actually
about in visual form. And what's interesting is there's a lot of noise.
If they were going to do that, there would be a lot of noise, but they did a
really good job at reducing the noise and really selecting what it's about. So right
here in this specific shot of Mr. Beast, you can see that the key word,
grocery store is 95 % positive that that's what it is and that it's food and
parking lot. And as he's having a discussion, it gets really, really interesting. But
these keywords right here are really, really, really important.
And in a video setting, these are the ones that you want to really start taking a
little bit more focused in on, is really looking at these types of keywords. Now,
here's the thing. There's 20 ,000 plus labels that are in the library,
and it's expanding at a rate as the AI is getting smarter, and it's able to really
understand what content is. I've been fascinated with this for several years now,
because they are getting so good that you can take a camera and start walking
through this store and we've done this in this video and every label of every can
will start to come back what's actually in stock in the actual grocery store and it
knows oh it's a can of ketchup or a bottle of ketchup you know of can of beans
or whatever it is and it even says oh it's dole and it starts pulling all this
information and seeing what the content really is about this is super powerful and
YouTube for quite some time says, hey, you know, when you're putting your tags in
your videos, we really don't care about that anymore. And the reason why, labels,
when they're able to go through all the video content and your thumbnail, that
they're able to start creating their own tags, and these are relevant tags that
really tell you and tell the viewer what the video is actually about.
Now, this right here is a little bit more complicated to get set up. You can still
do it and there is, like if you use it aggressively like we had, you know, there's
things that will cost because you're using bandwidth, but you can set this up. I
would encourage anyone that has a brand or, you know, huge libraries to set it up
this way. It's a really great way to organize content and find content quickly, and
you could use the AI to do it. You know, when we were getting it set up for some
different clients, it was really, really cool because they were able to go through,
you know, 15 years' worth of content and really start identifying all these different
things, and it was all happening in the background and labeling. Yeah, they were
using bandwidth, but it was good for them instead of hiring someone says, oh, find
this shot. You know, it already found all those shots, and it would actually go
through search. So it's really cool. YouTube's using the same system, but modified
for YouTube to really have superior type of content. This next one,
there's a lot of people that are sensitive, or they're getting demonetized, and they
have, you know, pornography, likelihood in this video, it's very unlikely,
and, you know, we could take a whole session and really talk about this, but we do
need to move on. Next is captions. So what's being said in the video, like I said,
is super important and it comes back down to the natural language portion of Google
Brain. This is where it gets really interesting. So everything that you're saying in
your videos is trying to be analyzed of what type of context. Now the natural
language API, you can tap into this. It's like really defining are you trying to
spam someone or is
because of this, right here. So it starts to score your content. And that content,
they're trying to predict, is this content going to be good, and what is the
content about? Well, they can figure out what the content's about, but they can't
figure out what it's good until they serve it to viewers, right? And so they're
really trying to define what this content is and be able to predict people to watch
it, and once they have that data, then they can find similar people. This is where
I really love it, because it really starts to geek out in all the English classes
that I missed. But it's like they really start defining every little thing, what's a
noun and so on, and it's showing the positions of it, and it has a lot of weight.
Now, this next one is, it creates, when you use this enough, it automatically
detects what category it should be in. So when you self -select your own category,
there's not that many categories. And people like, well, I need my own category.
Well, they're already doing that for you. Like, that's why videos are so important
and they're unique. You can do different types of videos and it will figure out
what type of category to serve that in based on what's being said in the video,
what's being shown in the video, and also your thumbnail. Okay? This is super
powerful, and you can go see a complete list. Once you go through this process,
there's that little link right there that you can click on it, and it'll give you
every list of categories. It will blow your mind how many categories there are and
how they can really define that. Okay, now, metadata. I said metadata is more
important than ever before, and this is why. Because it's taking what's in the
thumbnail, because the thumbnail is content, and what's in the video,
because video, of course, is content, and what's being said in the video, and that's
pulling all this information, and then it's gonna look at your title and description.
Now, based on the YouTube feature that it's going to go, there might be a little
bit more weight for the title and description, like in search, we'll talk about that
in a second, but they are looking to say, is this content, is it validating?
Is it clickbait? Or is it actually what's happening in the video? This right here
is something that as you understand your content, what you're going to create, and
if you can reinforce those keywords that already have a strong presence in your
content and you're utilizing it and reinforcing it in your title, that's where you
start to have authority if your video will actually perform with the viewers. And it
gets really, really interesting from here.
This right here, like I can't overstress this, is the type of information that
you're putting in your videos. You've got to create better content if you want to
succeed. Stop blaming YouTube, because it's ultimately up to you right now that if
your content's going to perform or not. And I can tell you right now that there
are creators that get frustrated, and the reason why they're frustrated is because
they don't take a step back and analyze if their content's actually good. They just
kind of coast. And I don't believe you can coast anymore. You have to always
improve and always understand where is the traffic coming from, who are these
viewers, and you have to analyze and adjust. And so this is a good place to start
seeing where trends are happening and so on, and you're able to see what actually
impacts your viewer. So YouTube is not one algorithm. Get that way out of your
mind. There's multiple algorithms that actually happen. Each YouTube feature has its
own set of systems. And each system is very specific of accomplishing certain goals.
So here's a couple of them. There's other features that YouTube has, but I wanted
to put together a few of them here. And if you notice it's in the center is
Google Brain. That's basically controlling all the algorithms and making sure
everything's playing properly. But the whole objective is to achieve the objective and
goals for that specific feature set. And the feature set has a system behind it,
and it's trying to be optimized. It is taking time to really understand what's
happening, the behavior that's going on, and really optimizing that specific feature
set. I know that a lot of you have voiced frustrations over certain features not
getting out. Like, seriously, like the subscriber is not being notified. Like, really,
I know it's kind of sometimes hard to trust, but it's like the AI is really good
at predicting if you can hit the metrics and the things that it's actually looking
for, and it will get it out to far more people than what your small little group
would be. Okay? And so every feature has a system behind it. And what the features
are looking for is a hit rate. It's very sensitive to this hit rate.
Now, you're probably wondering, what's a hit rate? Well, a hit rate is how often
viewers are able to find what they want to watch. And so each feature,
there's a different hit rate for the objectives and goals that they're trying to
accomplish. And so they're very individualized. They're organized,
but they're individualized to what type of content it's providing four viewers to
see. And this hit rate is extremely sensitive.
And they are, all the hit rates trying to do is follow the audience to understand
the user behavior of the audience and understand the type of content that's being
uploaded and make sure that they're giving new videos out to a new audience as new
segments appear. So let's kind of break this down. And I think this is really
important that we take a little bit more time of really understanding the features
and understanding the hit rate and so on. As Google Brain gets smarter and really
achieves its goals, they're always going to be pushing the envelope. They're always
going to try to define, hey, we need to amplify and really get a higher goal set.
And you take all this data. There's a lot of noise out there, but they're able to
take all this unstructured data, structured data, and see patterns that we cannot
see.
And that's where the AI is able to give a viewer a better experience. And so
they're always doing experiments. I believe they said in a video on the YouTube
creators channel. I have everyone subscribe to that and inside creators stuff.
Definitely subscribe to those. But they're doing constant experiments. I think it's
either 300 experiments. We could ask Todd. He's probably somewhere here in VidCon.
But it's like either two to 300 experiments that they actually solidified. Now, each
experiment's not all across that. It's of different specific features. and they're
always experimenting, they're always trying. Why do they do that? Well, they're trying
to predict to get that hit rate to go up, okay? And it's really,
really important that you understand that. And not get frustrated. You just need to
take a step back at times. Okay, I know a lot of creators have come to me and
voice their frustration at the YouTube homepage because, you know, it never was like
it was before. You know, seeing only your subscriptions. And I'm here to tell you
it's good that they don't do it this way. Because a lot of you right here would
have never been discovered or found if YouTube didn't shift that. There's more videos
being served on the homepage every day than any time before because that is how
this feature is made. Okay. So this, the whole goal of this feature is a one stop
personalized destination. You do not have to tap in a query or you have to
navigate. It's like everything's there for you to start to consume. Now as you start
giving feedback and satisfaction to your videos, this section would be so much
better. Let me give you an example.
Before I was going to go to VidCon London to speak, My kid was watching a cartoon,
and he's like, have you seen the odd ones out? I'm like, I don't really watch
cartoons. He goes, you've got to come watch this. They have a video called Sue
Buoy. So I sat down, I was crying, laughing so hard. And before you know it,
I watched three videos from Odds went out. And before you know it,
I checked off YouTube, because it was late at night. And the first thing I went in
the morning, I went to YouTube, to the home page, my personalized destination, and
guess what's actually, I didn't subscribe to the channel, but guess what was there?
Two more videos from the same creator, and what did I do? I watched them,
and I laughed again, and I go, I've got to stop. I cannot, I can't binge watch
the whole channel. But it found something that I liked, and then it literally
stalked me and hunted me for about 28 days until I hit that subscribe button. OK.
Now, this one -stop personalized destination is based on viewers what they watch and
the search history. And if you want a clean slate, go ahead and just delete all
your search history. They keep some data and stuff like that. But just start to see
what it appears. Now, for me, I want it really focus because I don't want to waste
time. Time is really important to me, and I want to be able to get exactly what
I'm looking for. So this includes how much a person watches on a specific channel
or topic. Now, this right here, I want you all to understand. They don't want to
just give you what you've already watched. They want to predict what you want to
watch. And so if there's a specific topic that you enjoy, they're going to find
other creators. Well, let me take a step back. They're going to find a subset of
viewers like you and see what they're watching. And then that's what they're going
to start serving on the YouTube homepage. So this is all about how many times we've
already seen the results and so on and so forth. But this is where I like to
break it down. I like to say, hey, it's broken into two parts and it's personalized
destination for what they're familiar with. These are things that you subscribe to or
you've watched a lot of content and they're like saying, hey, you've already watched
this, watch this again, or watch this other version of this video, and what's being
discovered. Now, I can tell you, I am so grateful that I'm finding videos I never
knew existed and I would have never found them. And I'm telling you, a lot of you
creators would never have had the success that you had if they didn't actually
change this feature. because people you'd be
really important and I think everything is like how do you trigger the algorithm and
it's it's simple you actually need to pay attention to your content and what is
your content your content is your title your thumbnail your video what you say in a
video that's your content your description of course and it starts to analyze all
this and it wants to see how how satisfied people are. So to improve that,
it's like create a better engagement and satisfy more of your viewers in a way that
they'll want to watch more videos from you. And if you can get a larger sample
size and YouTube can go, hey, guess what? We're going to go and find you more
people because this video is really good and it's performing. And guess what? There's
all these people that just watch this content. We're going to serve it out there.
Have you ever noticed that a video would actually get a ton of views and then it
just kind of dies? And you're like, oh, why did it die? Well, what's happening
there is it takes a break because you can only go and serve out to so many
people. And whether it's effective or not, it doesn't matter. It needs to take a
break until it creates enough user behavior to set it out to another group.
And the more that it expands out, I have videos that have been going for the last
five years, and it's almost predictable of what they're at. And every channel,
every video is different. And so giving you numbers of that, it's not going to help
you. It's just like there is a predictive way that the algorithm goes and finds
more people. Because as people consume more, then they're like, oh, we've got to go
ahead and show them this video. They're also looking how performance is higher than
normal. And I'm really grateful for the studio beta. Get over it. Just go jump on
it. Get entrenched in it. Leave your feedback. Tell them what you need. They will
put it in there. They've been great to put a lot of features that I get really
excited about. The first one was that video performance funnel. I mean, I was
crying. Well, not really, but I was crying. I was so grateful for it because it
gave me so much information that I was just hypothetically thinking was happening and
they actually give me real -time data. And now real -time CTR, I'm just like, oh,
I'm just over the moon. But they're really looking at the performance of the video
and having it higher than normal. I've got to get cooked in here. Okay, so next is
the what's next. We call it a suggestion, but this feature is like what to show
the creators next. This is where things change. We're actually giving YouTube a
query, the video. So the video actually has content. The video actually has data and
that data will say, okay, now we actually have a size of viewers that are seeing
it and we're looking at that relationship of that data to know what to predict to
get it out there. Now this is, I can tell you right here, this is the most
powerful recommendation areas, and I would spend a lot of time creating data
relationships between your content. I'm going to give you some really, really
important tactics and strategies that you need to do, and it's just best practices.
But now that you give in YouTube a query, which is the video, now it can start
defining what it is. Now the AI has additional context of what you're watching now.
So it has all that metadata that's in the video, but now it starts to have
context. As people start watching your content, it gathers more and more data.
Now, here's where it's interesting. It took a while before they push and promote in
different ways, the freshness factor and a few other things. They can immediately
turn it on and ramp it up as fast as it can grow, but it's going to only go to
sample sizing. And And it knows its limits, and it will kind of slow down, and
then you'll see a huge drop, and it'll be patient a little bit, and then they'll
come back up. But the AI actually has additional context with what you're watching,
and it's trying to actually predict what viewers will have without having viewer
fatigue and having them jump off of YouTube. So there is a mixed relationship of
the What's Next. This is all the content that's, if you're on desktop, is the side
of the video going down there on mobile. It's beneath the video.
There's a feature, I don't think I threw it through the video in, or the image in,
because they had my slides before, but this is what they're actually pulling in.
They're pulling in videos from the current channel that they're actually watching. So
you as a creator, there will actually be videos that actually show up there, and it
might or might not be on the same subject, depending on what the viewing
relationship of the person that's watching that at that time. It's also looking at
who watched the video that you're watching and what they did next. So it's saying,
okay, we had 10 ,000 people watch this video, and there's a 2 % of the people that
watch this video, 4 % of the people watch this other video that we suggested, 10 %
of the people watch this other video and it's starting to create content and video
going off the side based off of that data, that user data, because it's similar
people, what they're watching. Then they're also pulling in similar videos that have
similar titles, keywords, and descriptions. And this is probably one of the most
misunderstood. You're like, hey, you know, if the video I'm watching is about
cooking, why don't I always see all cooking things, or I do see all cooking things.
Well, they're going to pull in those three types of videos. And then a fourth one,
which is personalized videos that are literally non -directly related to what you're
watching, but it's topics that you like to consume and content that they already
know that you'll want to consume. And the big thing here is this. When you're
thinking of what's next, or watch next, if you want to go further and further down
the rabbit hole, not in a negative way, but you want to go more deep on the
topic, you can. Or you can watch something else. That gives you two options to do
that, and it's something that they already know that you might like. And the AI is
really smart of understanding that relationship of when you start to have fatigue,
how many videos in a row, How many when you stop binging a specific topic or a
video? Okay? So, triggers to watch the next one? You guys want to know this?
The triggers? Say yes. All right, here's the triggers. You want to create a strong
behavioral data relationship with your own content. It's already built in,
guys. It's already there. What we got to do is leverage that. Now, to do that,
there's a couple ways to do it. One, I talk about video buckets. You have to have
topics. You have to have topics that are going to resonate with an audience. And
when you can narrow down, when you can niche down what that topic is, that's great.
That's what I call a bucket. Then what you do is you can create content within
that bucket that would resonate with an audience on a specific topic. And then you
start doing it into a series, multiple videos on it, and that creates a really
strong relationship between doing it. Now, if you do the same topic every day for
the next 100 years, it's not going to do you any good. You can only serve it out
so much, but if you start to vary your topics based off of different other items,
keywords that might be in that bucket, that creates a relationship. Then next, you
create a strong
CTA to have the viewer watch another video within that bucket, within that series.
Stop asking them to comment, like, and subscribe. Tell them to watch this video
because you need to watch it. So with our clients, guess what? We tell them, what's
the thumbnail going to be? What's the title going to be? What's the hook going to
be? And what is your video that you're going to recommend in the video so people
can watch next? Because what we're trying to do is create a data relationship of,
hey, you have 20 % of the people that finished the video, clicked on the other
video that went to this next one, they're gonna go ahead and predictably find people
for you to watch. So that means cards and cards, leaks in description, series
playlists. Series playlists is important if you're doing serialized content, that you
can actually create these bonds and this relationship between the content. Next, we're
gonna talk about search. I gotta get cruising because I'm gonna run it out of time.
But when you're doing search, you're giving YouTube a query. And you're actually
typing in something. And this is where it gets interesting. They're going to display
videos that match the query, the title, and the description. But have you ever seen
in one of your searches that those videos show up that doesn't have the title or
the keyword in the title of the description, but it's there? That happens all the
time for me. And basically, this is another one. It's like people searching for this
query tend to watch certain types of videos, and it might show up. Like that might
be one of the things that's happening in that search feature. But most importantly,
they're looking at the performance. And the performance. When someone sees that,
do they watch just a portion of the video? Do they watch more of the video? Are
they more engaged in that area? They're looking very specific at that information of
what to see. Now, if you're trying to game this, don't. Just make better content.
And it all starts down with your title. Next is trending. There's been a lot of
frustrated creators on trending. They don't understand this. I like to say that it's
a geopacific water cooler. And basically, this is not a popularity list.
It's not, what's the most popular videos in different verticals? It's not that. What
it is, is it's really understanding broader topics that appeal to a huge,
large audience. And this right here, the larger the audience it is, it could be
different topics that, you'll see something that has 10 ,000 views, and you're like,
oh, some YouTube employees, like hit a button so that shows up. That's not the
case, because it's appealing to something that, you know,
And whether you like it or not, that's what's there, because that's the whole
purpose, the objective, of that feature. So focus in on the viewer.
This next, and I got to really cruise, and I do apologize, you really need to
start focusing in on the middle of the video performance funnel. And like I said,
I'm really grateful for YouTube for this feature. This is the best thing that hit
the analytics since real -time analytics. And if you ever want to know what the
And it's really important. So you can see this content was 99 .8 % recommended by
YouTube. We had a 23 .1 click -through rate. When this was only recommended at 42%,
it was like a smaller sample size, it's like our own group, and it was like 42 %
click -through rate. It was a really good thumbnail and a really good title. You
also want to spend hours. This is Jimmy, I don't know if you know him, But he,
as Mr. Beast, and one of the most real authentic people I've met, and he just
cares about the title and the thumbnail so much. And then he comes up with that.
He spends hours really analyzing what he's going to do for a video, and sometimes
days and sometimes weeks and sometimes months. And he wants to understand what it's
going to look like, the relationship. There's a lot of testing going on. It's just
not creating it last minute before you upload, And there's a lot of thought. But
next, you want to spend double, triple the amount of time. If you were my client,
I would say you need to spend a lot more time until you can start doubling your
averages in a different way. The lower rung of this is the average iteration.
I've always been sensitive to that of the percentage and also the minutes watched.
And I know that there's a lot of weight and discussion on, hey, is it percentage?
Is it Minutes Watch? Well, yes, it's both. I personally care a lot about the
percentage. I don't know if I'm right, but I do. And I want to know if they can
finish the video, then they're satisfied. And then there's a toggle, too, that you
can actually come in. Oh, I've got more slides here. But there's a topic that you
can actually come in and you can toggle it to see how it is relative to other
videos that are similar into that type of niche, similar length, and you can see if
it's above average or whatever. So I'm really sensitive to those two things. Next,
please, please, please, always deliver on the promise of the title and thumbnail. If
you do not do this, you will be penalized because if that viewer says, oh, this is
not the content I'm looking for. And please don't do it at Minut Marketer 8. Like
literally do it at the beginning, right there in the front, the first 10 seconds,
reinforce that keyword, and the promise of that title and thumbnail. Your audience
retention graph is really interesting. I want every creator in here, whether your
brand or a YouTuber, to spend time on this. This tells the relationship how your
video is actually performing based off of viewing behavior. And the best way to
understand what the algorithm likes and what the averages are is to really understand
this. And the cool thing is, you can play a video and it will show you the real
time where people drop. And what's interesting is this specific video, the reason why
it dropped down so much, we did not reinforce our title and our thumbnail within
that first bit of time, but we did a little bit later, and then that's when
they're like, okay, do they just jump to that part, and they didn't want to feel
like they're missing anything on it. Average view duration was great on this, but
every video is different. Now, remember we talked about buckets? You can start to
see correlation between content, and when it's on a specific topic and it appeals to
a specific viewer, then you can start putting things in groups. Now, this is a
feature that I begged YouTube to put in there. And luckily Matt Pat was able to,
you know, him and quite a few others, made the suggestion to get it in there. So
in the analytics, it's like the most powerful thing to do is look all your top
videos. And in the upper right end corner, you can actually do some comparisons. If
you start putting those videos in buckets and groups and you start saying,
hey, this is all related content within this, in this topic or niche and it's my
serialized stuff and you start doing all your different buckets, you now start to
compare data that is the right way. You can see which viewers like which content,
but you can see which traffic source these contents coming from. And this is going
to shock you that there's certain traffic sources that like certain type of content.
And when you understand that as a brand or as a creator, that helps you really
understand the dynamics. Now, The closing thing, and I want everyone to understand
this, is you have to improve your content. Your content and the relationship that it
has with viewers is not going to go away. It's not going to go away. And it's
either going to perform or not. Now, there's all these hidden surprises that happen,
that you'll have a piece of content that just takes off. And that's because YouTube
finally found a large enough sample size to actually give you the content that you
want to watch. And when you do that, you can have numbers that just take off.
And you can really explode. You can have a ton of views in a short amount of time
by just changing a few little things, small tweaks. Don't overanalyze what we're
talking about. Just make better content and really focus on the viewing experience of
what people are watching at that time. Thank you so much, guys. Appreciate it. Let's
talk about metadata. Metadata is what's important on YouTube,
and it gives us the queries and the things that we're able to do to know how to
get recommended. So you actually has, it starts with a thumbnail, title, your video
itself, then what you supply YouTube, which is your video title, your description,
and even some tags. But what I want to explain is that's all great until YouTube
has enough data on its own to do its job. And I want to talk about videos itself,
but more about viewer behavior. Now, I can tell you, I've talked to a lot of you
here. That's why I'm losing my voice. And a lot of you focus in on the wrong
things. And I want you to really take a step back here at VidSummit. I want you
to take some takeaways. You're going to have two presentations. This is the first.
And once you understand what myself and Jimmy are going to teach, then it's going
to help you understand how you can improve, and how to analyze, and how to adjust.
So let's go to it. Who's seen this graph? I mean, I think Matt Gillian had it in
his presentation. This is actually in a paper that was actually written by some
people that are here and some people that are watching it. It's like way over a
lot of people's heads. I've spent a lot of time researching and trying to understand
the whole system, and this is the whole recommendation system. But for me, anyone
that knows me, I want to always make it simple. So, shall we simplify it? No,
should we simplify it? All right, here we go. This is the most simple thing. This
is actually this graph right here that you're seeing right here is simplified like
this.
No, it is. No, you think it's not simplified, but it is. This graph right here is
this. Okay, so should we define it? Okay, so.
they're really, really watching the viewer. Really watching.
Okay, that's how simple it is. Like, let's not overcomplicate the AI. Okay,
so the AI is meant to have a deep relationship, a partnership with the viewer.
And as the viewer navigates through the platform, it's able to identify what the
viewer will like. Now, we've talked about this before. I even went in detail several
presentations that I've done, but I want to do it in the most simplistic way that
I can. Okay.
You have the triangle of destiny here. So, like, as a viewer comes on,
they're able to watch content and skip content, and it gives feedback. There's a
feedback loop that goes to the bot that has the tight relationship with the viewer,
and then it goes, gives the viewer, and it refreshes and gives the viewer what they
want. Now, what's interesting is each part of this is really important.
So as you interact as a viewer with the platform, it gets smarter and smarter and
smarter. And ultimately, as as this feedback loop happens,
it becomes more predictable. And so I want to break it down on viewer trajectory.
This is not necessarily discussed in a lot of places, but this is kind of the
essentials that you need to know. And the first part about viewer trajectory is the
impression. Now, what an impression is, just really quickly, is when someone actually
sees your title and thumbnail for longer than a second. Okay, that's an impression.
And you can only get certain impressions on certain traffic. We're not going to go
in deep on that. But the first thing is, is the consumption part.
So there's an impression, and then the viewer consumes. How do they consume?
They click, right? So this is not rocket science. There's a lot of people talking
about this but this is where it gets really really interesting the next thing is
the like this is the most misunderstood portion that creators make they're like oh
yeah we had a lot of thumbs up we had a lot of engagement but all we consider
how people like it how the AI is is basically the average view duration and the
average view percentage That right there is the keys to the kingdom.
Like, if you can get them to click and you have this down in the right way, you
will get promoted. Next is the query. Now, let's talk about this for a second.
So, when someone watches a video, they watch it for five seconds. It now gave
YouTube data. Okay? It says, this person consumed this content and the average
reiteration wasn't very long, so let's not actually serve a more content like that.
So now you have a query, you have content that YouTube can use, and it has a lot
of data around that video. They see who's watching those videos, who's engaging with
those videos, who's actually going to the video and watching it over and over and
over again. The query is so important to the AI, and that's why some of the
tactics that Mr. Beast is going to share with you will make your mind explode.
Okay? Next, after they have the query, they can now make a recommendation.
Now, this is the viewer trajectory, and this is what happens, this is the life
cycle of a viewer, and if they do a good job with the recommendation,
guess what happens, guys? we start over again. It's an impression, right?
Then it's a click -through rate. They consume average utilization query, and they keep
on getting better. Now, right here is broken into two areas. Now, I can tell you,
one of the most key things that I look at as a consultant is watch history,
viewer watch history. That's really, really, really important for me because the watch
history and how recent that really is on a channel is critical for success.
And you're either going up or you're either going down. And YouTube has done a
great job to give us a lot of tools that we can actually analyze the things there.
Now, that itself gives us a dynamic future. And this is what I love is it can
change. you could be stalled out, you could be plateaued. All you've got to do is
change a few things to get people to actually watch your videos and have them in
history and engage with your content, and that changes the dynamic future. I've seen
channels explode overnight because they were focusing in on the right things.
Okay, so this being said, this is where it gets interesting. Three main focuses.
And I can tell you,
a marketer okay focus number one viewer acquisition this right here is key it's main
focus next viewer retention and lastly churn okay how many people are dropping off
so let's kind of look at it in a different light let's go ahead and look at
viewer acquisition Let's like break this down. So in this, we can actually take,
this is Mr. Bees, part of his number, so you can take your pictures now.
But here's where it's interesting. There's a lot of data here, okay? But the data
that we care about, the data that we care is about actually this,
right? The impressions to clicks. Now, the impressions are really important,
and I'm not going to go in depth on that. I'm going to leave Jimmy the opportunity
to go in there, but it's really important that you understand that that is the
acquisition. And when you're able to acquire a new viewer, that is the first step.
Next, if we look at it, is the viewer retention. Viewer retention is key.
We talked about that. And that's where it comes right here, the average view
duration. This is like my favorite tool that YouTube's ever developed. It is super
powerful. Everybody should get off classic. I think we're going to be forced off
classic. But this is by far the best tool that you can ever use when you're
analyzing your content. And you're able to pull this in and start seeing the real
data that is behind every single view and how they come in. Now,
what's interesting as we're going through this is most people don't click on that
little plus icon with a round circle. There are gyms of joy there.
Okay? I can tell you. One of the things is the average percentage viewed. There's
another thing of how many subscribers are actually coming in from the different types
of videos that you're putting out there. And it goes deep and deep and deep. And
this is why I love it. I've been using Google Ads for a very long time for other
businesses that I have. And I thought AdWords is amazing. And you're able to do so
much. Well, they've taken a lot of the analytical stuff and kind of moved it over
for YouTube. And I wish everyone would know how to use it. But this gives you a
lot of great things. Now let's talk about, next, Let's talk about this.
This right here is, I want everyone to take a picture of this. This is so
important. This right here is the true retention that we're talking about.
So you have average vieweration. You have average percentage viewed, but this is
right here. It says average views per viewer. In what days? 28 days.
So he released four videos, and in four videos, the average person is watched 4 .2
times.
Okay.
Jordy, raise your hand. I see it back there. Raise your hand. Jordy, how many
average view per viewers that you get?
Seven. He gets seven. Think about that for a second. It's crazy.
That means every person that's watching it from there. Now, I can tell you, if you
want to improve, it's getting people to watch your content and watch it again, and
watch it again, and watch it again. Now, I'm going to not go in depth on this,
but this metric right here, I believe that most creators are not looking at or they
didn't understand. So to understand this, this is the actual retention of your
viewer. This right here is watch history. Watch history. This
actually a lot higher if Jimmy would post more videos. And he does. And it goes up
to six or seven. It depends on how many videos that he actually releases in a
given 28 days. Okay. Viewer churn. I am so concerned with this.
And so YouTube, if you are here, please give us the data for this. Like, I want
this data. I love this data. And let me kind of explain how YouTube can put the
resources behind this to get the
of traffic and where traffic's going where traffic's coming because once you
understand that then that's where success happens I had a client that was getting
yet 42 % of other viewers are coming from search and he couldn't figure out why his
videos just would never take off and I go well because it's search if you want 70
% 75 % of all views on YouTube you need to be recommended by YouTube not through
search but recommendation And so once we were able to change a strategy, he was
able to get hundreds of thousands of views in a couple days. Once he was able to
know, oh, you can change a few things, and it's going to take some time so that
you can actually develop a relationship with the viewer and your content. So next,
YouTube has its own traffic, or sorry, each YouTube traffic is its own system. One
of the biggest mistakes that I've found that content creators make is they're trying
to analyze data that they have no idea how to analyze it. Now, I love YouTube, and
they do a great job, that you can actually roll over. There's a little icon by
every little metric, and it has a little eye on it. You roll over, and it tells
you what it is, and I really appreciate them doing it, but nobody does that. But
you've got to treat each different traffic source as different type of content. And
the best way to do, let's go back to this graph, is really dig deep. So this is
Mr. B's traffic sources. So you have suggested videos, browse feature, channel pages,
YouTube search, notifications, and so on. You can see the watch time, because we
sort by watch time, because watch time's the most important, and then we look at
the views. And here's what's interesting from this. When you start to dig deep and
you start to look at a video that he just released and you're able to see, okay,
this video had 6 .1 click -through rate. Would you guys say that's good or is that
bad? Who gets better than 6 .1 click -through rate? Okay, we got some people in
here, but here's the whole thing. Who gets better than 6 .1 click -through rate with
207 million impressions? All right. Okay,
that's what's interesting. So most people would say, oh, this is how my video is
performing. No, no, no, no, no. That's not how your video's performing. What you've
got to do is dig a little bit deeper. You've got to look at this number in a
different light. Because you're trying to put everything together. So what we need to
do is go over and pull in what traffic sources are bringing what and what click
through it is. Because every system on YouTube is independent. Okay.
Suggested videos is not trending tab or homepage. Well, home page and training tab
is the same thing, but you have a lot of things that are there. And you know, you
have home page, which is home and you have the subscriber tab and so on,
but you're kind of breaking this down and everything. So looking at this, on his
home page, he has 15 .4 % click -through rate instead of 6 .1.
Out of how many? 30 million impressions. And so what you can do is start taking
averages of your best performing and your low -performing you, and you can actually
create a baseline. Is this making sense? Yeah. All right. So it's about viewer
acquisition, viewer attention and viewer churn. And I truly believe what I just
showed you is a very simple approach to actually understand this. Okay,
so now what we need to do is talk specifically about channel jumpstart. And
ultimately, what we're looking at is understanding that the AI, we're able to feed
it, we're able to jumpstart it when we can give it predictability. And remember when
we talked about how to actually start linking content together. We talked about that
target video and we talked about buckets. That is where it's like jump starting the
algorithm because we only care about two different traffic sources. We care about
suggestion and we care about browse feature. Now suggestion 100 % is based off of
viewing behavior. Okay. So when people watch something and how they respond to it,
it is like going to interconnect with your content if we do a couple things. One
of the other things that we're going to be talking about is playlist here in a
couple videos. And ultimately, we're going to go in depth of how to actually
optimize that in a way. So you have a higher probability of suggestion. Okay. Now,
ultimately, the suggestion portion is basically user behavior, what they watch next,
and that probability of getting them to watch next. And as we're creating these data
points of really saying, hey, look, they watch this one, and then they watch this
one, and we've done several different ways to increase the probability of that
happening, then you're starting to dominate time and time again. And ultimately, it
leads to our other traffic source, which is Browse Feature. Now, Browse Feature is
probably the most sensitive to what is happening on your channel. Now, when someone
just engages with some content, they might not subscribe, but it's going to show up
in Browse Feature, which is homepage or subscription feed. And if it shows up on
homepage, people, you know, they're going to watch it. They might watch four or five
videos before they actually hit subscribe. And once they start engaging with that,
then it's going to hit in a little bit deeper level. Now here's where I want you
to understand. It is so, so important that we get people to engage with our
content. That's why you don't want to have disjointed content. What you want to do
what you want to have is content that complements each other. That's why we call
this programming strategy when we're setting up different buckets. And when people
skip a video, that could be bad in a lot of different ways because they're like,
hey, they like this content, but they didn't like this content. So let's not show
them this content anymore. Let's only show them this content. So you're like really
handcuffing the AI. So what we want to do is get our content so that they're in
buckets and then they'll naturally recommend it and they'll be more apt to watch
because another thing that they look at is the time when they watch videos. So
they're really sensitive to the watch history of when people watch content, how long
they watch content for. And they can say, do you know what? They've watched five
videos in four weeks of this creator. Let's always show them them stuff. Not only
in Brow's feature, but in suggestion. So In my VidSummit presentation, I showed you
numbers from Mr. Beast. Now, what I want you to really look at is all the
different things that we talked about with Channel Jump Start. And the most important
thing that YouTube's looking at when you're actually producing content is this.
Now, we already talked about click to rate. We already talked about average view
duration. We already talked about average percent viewed. But more importantly, it is
the average view per viewer in a given time. Now, YouTube is super sensitive to how
much content you consume from a specific content creator. And you can see here in
Mr. Beast's video that he released four videos in 28 days and the average view per
viewer is 4 .2. Now think about that. Every single video,
the average was higher than the release. So if he released five and you had 5 to,
that right there is what really makes YouTube want to recommend your content. That's
the secret of everything. Like, seriously, it doesn't get more simple than that.
That's why we use buckets. That's why we try to space things out and we'll go a
lot more into depth. When we start analyzing the content, we're going to go a lot
deeper into it. But more importantly, that's the reason why you want to do the
things that will increase your probability of YouTube recommending. And I can tell
you, if YouTube looks at your channel and when someone watches it, they watch every
single content and more, then that's when you'll actually jumpstart the algorithm.

PT4

Hey, jump starters, ready to jump right in and start talking about promotion. Now,
I can't wait to geek out because we're going to go in depth on the smart promotion
and also strategic collaborations. Now, let me give you a little bit of backstory.
When I was growing up, I was really gravitated to ads. I love the psychology of
ads. And as a young child, I would sit down and watch these commercials, and I'm
like, man, I can't wait to create something like this. I can't wait to make Super
Bowl commercials. I remember one commercial that just made me laugh time and time
again was Where's the Beef from Wendy's. Yes, we know it's a What's a big plop to
the manager? It is the manager. Where's the beef? He's putting us under the
supervisor. If you ask me what you did isn't, we should call the owner. At Wendy's,
the hamburger we modestly call her single, has more beef than the Big Mac or
Whopper. He's got the owner.
Hello? Where's the beef?
Wendy's kind of people never ask, where's the beef? I don't think Is anybody there?
That ad campaign was so disruptive, and it was so entertaining, and it was so
different than what McDonald's and Burger King were doing at the time. And I can
tell you, that's where I was like, holy cow, this is something that I want to do.
This is something I need to do, and I want to be a part of it. And so I spent
my life really looking at advertising in a different way. I'd collect ads, and I
would actually do quite a bit when it came to that and I ended up getting my
degree in marketing and advertising and my goal was to go and work for a big
company and so on and so forth. The tactics and strategies that I'm going to share
with you here in this video is the best way to actually promote on YouTube.
Like there's other ways to promote if you're looking to sell products and stuff from
there. But when we're talking about the channel jumpstart way it's all about
community building and really leveraging the video that we're creating that's why we
put so much time energy and effort in the preparation of those videos and also
really getting it just right so that it will have a higher probability to succeed
because if we can get people watching it and some of you are now enjoying the
fruits of that of actually seeing when someone actually watches your content that
you're actually getting more promotion from YouTube, and that's what we're talking
about here. Now, I want to give you two different examples. I want this to really
resonate with you. One example is when we were able to get 352 ,320 new subscribers
in 12 days. Also, we were able to do 1 ,050 ,590 subscribers subscribers in 30 days.
That's right. We're able to get a gold play button in a 30 day time and it all
has to do with the things that I'm actually going to share with you. One of the
biggest mistakes that most creators make when they're actually getting ready to
release their video is their thought process of promoting that video. And I think it
has a lot to do with YouTube educators meaning well and trying to get you to take
action to put that video out in every place of the internet all I got to do
subscribe to my channel now i know that most of you are like oh my goodness this
is something i've done time and time again i put them in different facebook groups
on my facebook page all over the board oh no we suck again okay so like that we
don't want to suck we don't want to suck again so what we're going to do is put
the past in the past and we're not going to do our promotion like we've done for
any other video, we're going to be more strategic. Now, for me, I've told you in
Channel Jumpstart several times, I am super sensitive to traffic. And what we want
to do is get the right type of traffic. So in this focus for promotion, we're
really going to be sensitive of two things. Number one, traffic sources and number
two, the viewer. Why? Why am I so obsessed and sensitive to traffic sources and the
viewer is because the quicker that we can help the AI understand what our content
is and who actually enjoys it, that's where massive growth comes from.
Some of you have experienced this up to this point. You're starting to see your
videos take off. Why? Because we're getting really hyper -focused on the content and
the viewer. And what happens is the viewer enjoys it, and they naturally want to
share it. And then next, the AI is watching very closely what's going on and says,
hey, this video is performing quite well with their core audience. Let's find more
people like the core viewer of this video. Now, I can tell you that the target
viewer that we're wanting can be our core viewer. And when this happens,
when we're able to do this, this is where massive growth happens, and you're able
to grow with every single video release when you're using the channel Jumpstart way.
Now, in my Vid Summit presentation, we talked about the YouTube AI, how it's
watching the specific viewer, and it's seeing how they respond to different videos
and how they engage with it. And when like this example right here, the bot's
looking really closely at the viewer and the viewers are really emotionally connected
to that video, that's when the bot goes nuts and the reason why it says oh this
person responded really well to this video i know that there's more viewers like
this person out there let's go and find him and i'm here to tell you when you get
the right type of video that bot will automatically go out and get those viewers
for your video and you're going to see that some videos on your channel will get a
boost of views and then die off a boost of views and then die off a boost of
views and then die off or it's like a boost of views and then come down to a
medium boost of views and comes down to a medium that right there is when the
bot's doing its job it says hey look we found more people that would fall under
this parameter of liking that content let's go ahead and serve it because we already
know when we show it to this viewer that the viewer responds really well they're
going to click on it and they're going to watch it and they're going to watch it
for a this type of average view duration between this specific traffic source
the subject. Number one, yeah, they may go and watch for 10 or 30 seconds. That
sends a bad signal. Number two, the bad signals that are just damning your video
from not progressing. And so you're literally shooting yourself in the foot.
So not trying that. What we want to do is get the ideal target viewer, that core
viewer that we truly believe and we know that people would respond to. And for me,
that is the secret of growth on YouTube. That is the secret of taking really good
channel jumpstart content, the doing it the channel jumpstart way and promoting it to
the right type of people that will respond really well, and that's where success
comes. So when we're breaking down the success of promotion, it's about having
amazing content. Now content is king, but more importantly, distribution is queen and
she wears the pants, because I've seen amazing content on YouTube and it had like
three views. And I'm like, why isn't this getting out to people? Because their
content was good, but not all the content was good. The thumbnail is
understanding viewer and behavior. That's why I had you do so much recon and
research and look at all these little details of the comments and how way people
engage and how people respond is hoping that you start seeing some similarities that
says, oh, I need to do it this way. Or, oh, the viewer responds really positively
this way or negatively this way. And so let's not do those things or let's do
those things in our videos. And so creating better content is key. But more
importantly, it's like finding where your audience is at. And for me, I want to
give you this case study is when I was working with a brand new client, they had
a brand new YouTube channel. And I'm thinking, okay, how can we get the ball
moving? Now, every client has different things that they're offering. And this client,
it was super fun. They're super talented. They're super creative. And I knew that if
we got the right type of viewer watching this, that they'd be able to grow and get
over billions and billions of views on YouTube and grow a massive audience. And so
what I was doing is a lot of recon and research on the type of viewer, the target
viewer that I was looking for. And so I knew that this audience would respond
really well to this. And so I made a huge list of all the different channels that
were out there that would be our target audience. And I was going down through that
list and I was identifying, do you know, which audience would be the best? And I
just basically highlighted the ones that I wanted to reach out to. Now, when you're
reaching out to someone, regardless of what it is, you've got to bring value. You've
got to know what they're wanting and what they actually need. And if you can
provide what they want or what they need, they're emotionally to be more apt to do
a collab with you or do the right type of promotion for you. Now, this example
right here, we had a brand new YouTube channel. We were actually just posting some
content randomly that's out there. We were growing an audience. And at this time, we
had about 60 ,000 subscribers. And when I was going through this list, I knew a
couple of the people that were on this list. I actually worked with a couple of
the people on the list. And so I thought, you know what? Knowing their
circumstances, knowing what they truly want, I need to bring an offer to them that
would be appealing for them to work with a channel that was much smaller than them.
And so that was the match. We found the match that had the audience. We found the
match of what that creator wanted. And we were able to do it. Now, I can tell
you, had nothing to do with money, guys. Had nothing to do with money. They were
offering something that the creator needed. I'm not going to go into detail on that.
We'll have something a little bit more to discuss on that in the Discord group. But
we tried to find as much value as we can. And when we actually lined this up,
when we actually lined up our first collaboration, I knew, I just knew that we
needed to work really closely to really bring the full value of the collaboration to
our new YouTube channel. And as I was discussing with them of how things would work
and how it would look like, they were super excited to jump into it. And I'm gonna
basically show you the two videos for the collaboration and ultimately, maybe you're
gonna see the value that's truly there. And I can tell you right now, if you're
just gonna be in a video for someone on their channel and they're gonna give you a
shout out that won't do as much as doing this strategy which is what we call a
one for one that means that we're in their video they're in our video and we cross
promote each other and let's go ahead and take a look at this one for my
different video for y 'all. It's very exciting. We are super excited for y 'all to
see this. We did a co -lap with another channel called Studio C, and on their
channel they do like these sketch comedies. They do like these little skits that are
really funny and very addictive. They're like on replay 24 /7 at our house. Yeah, so
we decided to do a co -lap with them and we did a little skit for y 'all on our
channel and then we did one on theirs as well. So the one that's going up today
on our channel is kind of, It's like a parody version of the parent trap. It's
very funny. So they used us as the twins and it's very funny. I thought it turned
out great. It was so fun to film. Yeah. It was like filming a mini movie. Yeah.
It took all day. Like we got to dress up the costumes and beat characters. Tons of
fun. So enjoy. Let's watch the video. I
know, right? Tony is so cute. I'm so excited for this.
twins separated at birth each sent to live with different parents. You have a mom
but no dad, you have a dad with no mom, leaving you both to wonder what the other
parents is like. It's too bad you just figured it out on the last day of summer
camp right before you're about to go home. Are you thinking what I'm thinking? Yes,
we're going to be what it's right. Oh, okay. My bad.
Hope I didn't give you any ideas, right? Please don't do that. We should do it.
Let's switch places. That way I can get to know Dad. And I can get to know Mom.
Let's do it!
Dad? There's My girl. Come here.
Wow, camp has been good for you. You look way prettier. I miss you so much. I've
missed you too, sweetheart, which is why I've taken the entire day off just to
spend with you. You're the best out in the whole world. Anything for my princess.
Brooklyn? Brooklyn? Mom? Oh, Brooklyn.
Who are you? It's me your daughter, Brooklyn. My Brooklyn would never stop.
A strange teenager who wants to spend time with her family?
Why are you doing this?
Bailey? Bro. What is going on here? Well, the two of us switched places and I got
sent to jail for four months. Then I swam across the Atlantic Ocean, stole a car
in South Carolina, drove to Tulsa, and then hitchhiked the rest of my way here. Oh,
hey, sweetie.
Once I realized what had happened, I tried looking for you for about an hour, but
I had to put the clothes in the dryer. Then your father and I reconciled. I'm
sorry about that, but now we're all together. Well, I guess that's true. But wait,
there's still a corner missing. That's probably because of the third twin that
neither your father nor I wanted custody of and was left to fend for themselves in
the woods.
Barnaby? There's an even prettier one? Well everything's turned out great and there
were no unresolved questions and no one's going to need therapy. Now let's eat.
Guys,
if you absolutely love this video, be sure to go check out Studio C's channel where
they have awesome sketches just like this one. And as a bonus, Brooklyn and I did
a sketch with them on their channel, so if you guys want to see that, be sure to
click this box down there. And then also, where you're there, subscribe because
they're awesome and amazing, and we love them So much. And that's all we have. So
bye guys.
Man, what is taking so long? Are you guys almost ready up there? Just a minute.
You can't rush beauty, fellas. Prom is a big deal. The girls have been getting
ready since 10 this morning. 10 a year. I just threw the suit on in my car.
Didn't even shower. Just cologne. Guys, the Limo driver's been waiting for like 20
minutes.
Ladies, are you coming down soon? I'm ready.
Are you kidding me? Kelly, you're like the most beautiful girl in our class. Now
come on down. Hey, here I come.
Do you like it? Wow.
The modest is hottest. Oh, sweetie. I just wish your mom was here to see this.
She went to the store. Oh. Go, let me get the camera. Where is your shoulder? I
don't know.
Thanks.
Is it everything you imagined? No. What? Yes. Oh, good. She looks like a burrito
with a face. Thank you. Hey, Brooklyn, are you almost ready up there?
Yeah, and my sister's ready too. Oh. Is she coming with us? Yeah,
I hope that's okay. Brooklyn, you look boo.
Do you love it? So your sister couldn't get a date and you sold her into your
dress. Yeah. Thank you so much for understanding, Dan. Yes. Yep,
no, no, not you. I got this for you.
Thank you. Thank you.
Oh yeah. Lauren? You can stay up there if you need more time, you know. No
problem's here. I look amazing.
Oh. Hey.
That should work.
Oh, Michael.
She could roll down a flight of cement steps and she wouldn't get hurt. Yeah, well
at least yours has some curves. Mine has left literally everything to the
imagination. My date is a flippant, two -headed mythological creature. Okay, Michelle,
lay it on me. I can take it. I don't know. I don't look nearly as good as
Lauren, but I'm coming. No, no, no, no. Stay up there, please. Michelle, I can't
take it. I'm not strong enough, Michelle.
You look good. No. No way! How is that fair? Okay.
You boys have than back by midnight. I'll be home well before that. I'm excited.
I guess you go sideways? Okay. Of what you reminded. Baruka Salt.
You know what I'm talking about? Oh, wait. Just a little, a little. Okay.
Hi, thanks. Bye. I'm Sorry, I forgot my hat and cape.
Woo!
No!
Hi everyone, thanks so much for watching this video. We want to give a special
thanks to Brooklyn and Bailey for joining us on this one. We filmed another video
with them that is on their channel, so click on the link below to check that out.
Make sure to subscribe and comment below which one was your favorite dress. I know
mine. It was mine, right, Dad? It's mine. Anything's possible.
Sure. Okay, so now you just watched both video, that one for one, I hope you
noticed that the whole storytelling cycle worked in this for a sketch comedy show,
right? And at that end, you saw that gush. That gush is alive and well in both of
those videos, and they were really, really good. Now, for us, this strategic
collaboration or this promotion that we were doing was very, very, very well thought
out. And I want to break it down so you can see it because you mind not to see
it in your lens, but I'm going to show you what we did to not only bring this
in, but to take it to the level of promotion that we really wanted to. And it all
comes back down to this. We had the right audience watching that content. And the
second thing is, we had the right push. Let's go ahead and take a look at the
push again. Hey, guys.
It's very exciting. We are super excited for y 'all to see this. We did a collab
with another channel called Studio C, and on their channel they do like these sketch
comedies, they do like these little skits that are really funny and very addictive.
They're like on replay 24 -7 at our house. Yeah, so we decided to do a co -lap
with them and we did a little skit for y 'all on our channel and then we did one
on theirs as well. So the one that's going up today on our channel is kind of...
It's like a parody version of The Parent trap. It's very funny. So they used us as
the twins and it's very funny. I thought it turned out great. It was so fun to
film. Yeah. It was tons of fun to film. It was like filming a mini movie. Yeah.
It took all day. Like we got to dress up in costumes and beat characters. Yeah.
Tons of fun. So enjoy. Let's watch the video. Wow. I mean,
that was it right at the beginning of their video and they were watching Studio C
long before. And like I said, there was some value there. And then they really
loved and they were Starstruck with Studio C because they're like, hey, we love you
guys. And it was so awesome. And it was a great.
And as a bonus, Brooklyn and I did a sketch with them on their channel. So if you
guys want to see that, be sure to click this box down there. And then also, while
you're there, subscribe because they're awesome and amazing. And we love them so
much. And that's all we have. So bye, guys. Okay, so that right there is we had
an intro video that they're kind of prepping the people for it, saying what was
going on because this is definitely different type of content for their audience. And
at the end of the video, it was an amazing shout out saying, hey, go subscribe to
them and watch another video, and that was pushing traffic to that video. Now, there
was another thing that happened. If you look basically underneath the video, you can
see that there was in the description the link to their video. And so we have all
this data that's going, all this traffic that was watching this video, had a higher
probability to go watch the other video that has Brooklyn and Bailey with them with
Studio C, and they just laughed and they love the video and they're ready to
respond to the content that is on Studio C. And so when they went over there,
that's where it got really interesting. Now, a strategic collab will always have that
swarm of core viewers, the viewers, if you do this right, that will be our ideal
target avatar or ideal target viewer and it's sending them in swarms to your video.
When that happens, that makes the AI do another reaction and says, wait, what's
going on here? Why is all this influx of people, viewers coming to watch this and
look at all the similarities that they have in common? So you have a huge amount
of similarities with viewing behavior coming and watching and consume a video if you
do that one -for -one strategy that we talked about. And so as they're coming over
in swarms, the AI goes, huh, I'm paying attention to this. Let's see how they
respond to the content. And as they engage with the content and they go through the
content, it's really key what the AI sees next. Now also, I want you to understand
that we are getting the most core, the most devout viewers that are coming in this
swarm. And so it's really important so this right here I wanted to show you is all
these all these arrows that are pointing to the video this is the video going to
be on your channel and what do we want them to do well at we want them to finish
the video for sure and more importantly we want them to watch another video on our
channel because we don't really care for the subscribe right now yes we can put it
in the shadow yes we can put it in the CTA but we want them to watch another
video and so when we do that that is that viewing behavior that makes the
for joining us on this one. We filmed another video with them that is on their
channel, so click on the link below to check that out. Make sure to subscribe and
comment below which one was your favorite dress. I know mine. It was mine,
right, Dad? It's mine. Mine? Anything's possible. Okay, so you might say,
okay, wait a minute. Where is the video? You're just pushing them back to the their
video. Well, not necessarily. And I want you to look really closely at how many
views that Brooklyn and Bailey had on their video. We had 8 million views.
Also on our video, we had 11 .2 million views.
But what happens next is when viewers are actually watching the content, when it's
on our own library and we've done a great job at actually connecting our content
together, what is YouTube going to do? It's going to recommend our content and look
at the differences between watching this video of what's being suggested and also
what was being done on Brooklyn and Bailey's. And so there's a higher probability
that YouTube says, hey, here's all these attractive videos for you to watch and just
seeing what they're going to do, how they're going to respond. And It responded so
well that people clicked on it, clicked on and watched another video that YouTube
started to recommend our video more to the Brooklyn and Bailey audience because they
knew that that audience loved it and it was kind of being come our audience. And
they not only watched one video, but they watched multiple videos. They went on a
binge of Studio C and that's where we were able to get 352 ,320 new subscribers in
12 days. Now, I can tell you, I want to give you a lot more in -depth on
advertising because we actually took that little shout -out, got approval from the
McNights, but got that little shout -out that was for 30 seconds, and we actually
did a strategy. I'm going to show you in the next video. You don't want to miss
it. But before we get into it, it even gets better than this. And let me tell you
why. Because they had such a great experience, and we made it so fun for them,
and we fulfilled with the value that they were looking for, which was not money. It
was that experience of feeling like they were an actress in a movie or whatever.
That right there, going from a YouTuber and transitioning over to broadcast TV was
really, really big for them. So they did another collaboration the following year.
Check a look at this. We had 3 million high school and drama featuring Studio C in
Brooklyn and Bailey on Brooklyn and Bailey's channel had three million views and then
ours dance battle boys versus girls featuring Brooklyn and Bailey had three point six
million now here's the thing and here's what's interesting from that we had another
collaboration a year later and we brought in another hundred and twenty three
thousand two hundred and twenty new subscribers but it didn't take 12 days it only
took 48 hours
over a billion, almost two billion video views. Now, I can tell you that's the
fastest way to grow on YouTube. There's nothing bigger than that. And you're gonna
see really good strategic type of collaborations. You're looking at what's inside and
jerry rig everything and they do a lot of videos back to back and they grow
together. And we can break this down. We've seen a lot of smaller creators just
start helping each other and being each other's videos because they have the same
type of audience, and that is key. So I'm here to tell you, please, please, please
do not promote your videos to people that are not interested in your videos. I
don't care if they're a YouTuber. I don't care if it's in a Facebook group. What I
want you to do is promote it in the right way with people that will actually like
your content. They'll watch every video to the end. They'll share it naturally and
organically, and if there's enough of them, YouTube, the AI, will actually look at
it in a way to really grow. Now, let me explain to you another example where
someone got a gold play button in 30 days. 30 days. I mean, that was the fastest
we've ever seen it. It's so crazy. And what happened is they went through the
Channel Jump Start system. They got personal consultation from me, and they're just
using the same system that you guys are learning here right now. And they were a
part of Reddit. And Reddit, they're all these sub -communities that are out there.
And basically, they saw how people were, they did a lot of recon in Reddit, and
they saw how people were responding to the different type of content. And all they
did was create content that would respond really well to a sub -reddit. And that sub
-reddit went nuts. The person didn't self -promote because you don't do that in
Reddit. Reddit will nix you faster than you can even imagine. And what you want to
do is just speak their language, speak the way that they would want to communicate.
So it really resonates with that audience. And he knew that audience because he'd
been a part of that subreddit for 13 years. And so he's like, I know this audience
better than I know myself because I am that audience. And he was able to make some
content right there. He actually had some friends look at it and give him some
advice to make it better, those friends then just kind of put it in those
subredits. So went to the number one page of Reddit. And the first five videos that
that guy made, he made one video a week. He made sure that he did, just starting
a new channel, I always make sure you have at least one video that you release
that you're not really pushing to so that when somebody watches one video, they have
another video to watch. And what happened in those 30 days is he had over a
million subscribers. And he's getting almost a billion video views. And it's just
been since 2019.
the right people and we're really sensitive to the type of traffic that is coming
from and the channel jump start is more about understanding traffic analyzing and
adjusting now it is time for your assignment now i want you to come up with 10
different places where your ideal viewer your target viewer congregates online now
these could be youtube channels these could be subredits these could be facebook
groups but what i want you to do is figure out where they congregate, put them in
a list, and we'll see you on the next video.

PT5

Hey, Jump Start is ready to jump right in and start talking about how to promote
your video. Now, before we get started, I hope that you watch the video, this last
video on smart promotions and strategic collaborations, and I hope you did your
assignment. If you didn't do your assignment yet. Please do not watch this video. Do
the assignment first. Okay, so let's talk about promotion. What we want to do is
get the right type of viewer watching our content, coming from right traffic source,
and that will trigger the algorithm. That will trigger the AI once they can start
consuming the content and the content is in line with the viewer, and it's what the
viewer will want to watch and we have great content. It's going to trigger YouTube
recommending our content to similar viewers. Now, the best way is really on your
list that you've created. You should have some YouTube channels. Now, maybe you went
too big. And so I'm going to give you another assignment right now to go a little
bit smaller. Maybe some of these YouTube channels are about the same size as you.
And what we want to do is get your videos in front of new balls and the best way
to do that is in the community tab because that's what it's for and secondary is
for the cards and screen elements now the community tab is a lot easier to get
into you know you just basically change for a post for a post and got to be fans
of these creators and you have be watching their videos and you'll be able to
really engage with them and you need to push traffic their way and they're pushing
traffic your way. When you're doing that, that type of cross -promotion is nuts.
And you can do that with 10, 20, 30, 40 different channels as long, as long as
they're the right type of viewer. If it's not the right type of viewer, it's that
other trap that we talked about in the last video. You do not want to do that. So
the more that you can do it with the ideal viewer, the better it is. I can tell
you, guys, I can tell you, seriously, jump starters, this is part of the key to
success. I've seen a lot of creators work with each other. They collaborate, they
share, they help promote each other. And as a group, they're able to lift and to
grow. And I can tell you that works every single time because when someone grows,
as long as they're sharing, that brings up the rest and you know you might be
growing at different times and it can work from there it really does build a good
relationship with their viewers who will jump over because they're similar to yours
and they just haven't discovered you yet what I want you to do now is to identify
smaller channels that would be about the same size as you that would have the same
type of audience and then I want you to reach out find a way to talk to them
find a way to do a little group a mastermind group or whatever and start sharing
content on each.
But the card and the end screen definitely is. And so when you're doing that,
that's the traffic that we want because that's the other YouTube features or cards.
And basically those end screens and the cards or the other YouTube features, which
is community tab, is bringing traffic in. That is an indicator that basically
YouTube, if you remember my talk at VidCon and also at VidSummit, that YouTube's
looking very specifically for their hit rate, and that hit rate will translate into
other things, and it'll notify other traffic sources to test that out. And if it's
true, it will start to see a rise with other traffic sources. So we're doing
everything here internally to YouTube. So what about all the other people that are
off YouTube? And you have a list of things of where they actually congregate. Now,
for me, there is a couple strategies. First off, if we can bring them from off of
YouTube onto YouTube and that they stay on YouTube, not only one video, but their
session might be four or five videos, that is a very big deal. And that's a very
big thing. Now, I have a client, Mr. Beast, that he has an amazing strategy and he
has a lot of core following that when he does a tweet or he does an Instagram
post, he never, ever, ever puts the link in there. Why? He wants him to come onto
YouTube, type his name, look for the video, click on it. That's extra effort. It
is. But I can honestly say that does make a big difference. Now, what if you don't
have that size of core audience that loves your stuff and they follow you off of
YouTube on all these other socials? That's not going to work for you. You can get
to that point where it does, but we want to make sure that they're coming to
YouTube. Do not have it as an embed on your website. I mean, you can embed it,
but keep in mind, it's not bringing people to YouTube. We want to bring people to
YouTube. That is the traffic we want to have happened to really get our video to
be promoted in YouTube. And then next is there's several ways to do that. You can
actually just share a photo with the link so it doesn't do an embed. That's a very
powerful way. Now, I want you to look at that list, And I know that there's a lot
of things on that list of where you can actually promote. The thing that I want
you to do now, and this is part of your assignment, is to think about how you can
bring them value outside of your video content. And I want you to write them down.
And if you don't know, I want you to do a little bit of time to do some
research. Because this is your golden list that's going to help you be more
successful down the road. It's not like for immediate promotion. The immediate
promotion is, hey, we're releasing this video, we're getting some people to actually
do some cross -posting with community tab and getting some cards and end screens to
get that traffic going. And then off of YouTube, I would definitely, definitely,
definitely try to get value in those communities so that when you do ask for
something, it should be for the right video that will resonate with them. And when
that does happen, you'll have an influx of traffic coming to YouTube, but it's more
importantly that they see another video.
to talk about it because if the press talks about it, then he has people coming to
YouTube and checking that out. Sometimes it's through an embed. But there is that
other factor that kind of deals more with trending than anything else. And that's
something that he's able to do because what he's on trending, it will promote
naturally out to his love group in addition to that. So that's kind of a strategy
from there. Now, besides this last assignment, the assignment that I want to give
you now, besides coming up with all the different ideas of how you're going to
bring value out there, I want you to go ahead and select the people that are the
influencers in those spaces. I want you to reach out and start a relationship with
them, be their friend, and find a way to help contribute to their community and
helping them to be where they need to be. And if that happens, then you'll have a
higher probability of you getting your videos promoted. Now, I know this is not what
you're thinking. You're thinking, oh, there's some magic secret sauce that's here for
promotion. And the secret sauce is getting YouTube content that is your ideal viewer
to see your content through community tabs, cards, and end screen elements. And other
than that, you can do stories on YouTube, but realistically, it's reaching out to
the right people having those relationships so they'll want to actually push your
content naturally and organically from off platform to on the platform. And there
isn't really a hit list, a checklist. If anyone's giving you a checklist, you're
spending a lot of time, effort, and energy if you just spend more time on
developing the relationships with YouTubers that would do it naturally and you're
doing it for them and you're cross -promoting each other that's where success will
come here on channel jumpstart

PT6

Hey, Jump Start is ready to jump right in and start talking about how to use
advertising to get your content discovered. Now, I can tell you, this is the most
common question that I get when I'm getting a new client. They say, hey, we have
budget. Do we need to spend on ads? And I'm going to give you my answer for this,
and we're going to do it here in this video, and I would not do it any other
way. Now, I have spent a ton of money trying to discover the way to translate and
add into a subscriber. Why is that? Because I love advertising. I love that type of
promotion. And if I could figure out that magic bullet to do it, that would be the
best way to do it. Now, in that case day with Brooklyn and Bailey, what we were
able to do is I talked with the owners of the channel, which was Brooklyn and
Bailey, and I asked, hey, can we just create our ad account here just for some
promotion of your videos and our videos? And they said, sure, why not? So we took
that little clip of them kind of doing the shoutout. It was like 30 seconds. It
was great. And what I did was said, hey, anyone that watched this video on their
channel, I wanted to be able to put out that ad, which was them doing a shout out
to check out Studio C. Now, the great thing about it is we did some negative
targeting too where we said, hey, anyone watch this video that's not subscribed, then
show them this ad. And we actually had a high conversion rate on that.
And it was the highest I've ever seen. Now, that being said, there was still a lot
of money that was actually a part of this process trying to refine it. And it was
so much easier just to do a collaboration and not have to do it through ads. But
we did it. we were able to get about another 50 ,000.
traffic source it through and through ads when you can have it organically at a
massive rate. And so what we want to do is get YouTube to suggest. So remember in
the last video I talked about cards and end screens and also community tab, I would
take the money that you're going to put in ads instead of giving it to YouTube.
Give it to a creator. Say, hey, we have similar audiences. What about like 50 bucks
for you to put this as a card or an end screen and you do a shout out? Think
about that for a second. That would be 50 bucks that would be well.
or in a community tab, community tab could be pretty cheap. And I can tell you,
I've grown a lot of audiences that way. And it's a natural organic way. And
sometimes you get like five engagement points or you get a lot of money that's
wasted there. But that's because you haven't really looked at the right audience and
the right size. Now, I would go bigger on this and see if creators are maybe not
just beginning or just not there. I mean, you can probably do your cross -promotion
pollination tactic and strategy where you're just doing it for each other, but maybe
it's a bigger creator that is getting more views and more engagement on their
community tab. So I'd go to their channels, check out their community tabs, see if
it's happening, if it's not. Say, hey, what if I gave you, you know, 200 bucks or
300 bucks or whatever it may be? I don't know where your budget's at, but you can
literally look and see what the value is for that post. Now, the most effective way
to do this is an end screen element with a shout -out. That's your best bang for
your buck because you're getting the best viewers coming to the end of the video
that will be more apt to trust the creator that they've been watching their content
to go to the other video. Second would be without a shout -out. Third would be just
a card and you can do in combinations for this and the least effective of all the
tactics there would be the community tab, but it's probably the easiest to actually
get people to bite off on, because it doesn't really disrupt their video schedule or
whatever. So that is where I would put my money. You could do this over and over
and over again. We actually had one that did with 100 different channels, and we
spent right around $10 ,000, and we were able to get a half a million subscribers.
It's nuts. But the content was really good and they were using the channels don't
start way. So now, you know, now that they have five million subscribers, it's like,
okay, it's a no -brainer. But that's the best way that I would do advertising and
realistically, that's the only way that I'll do advertising until there's a better
way.

PT7

order to do it on YouTube? Cool. What is your understanding right now?
Very little in a sense that, okay, my understanding is the editor can upload the
video. And then once it's uploaded, you can't modify the video,
but you can modify the words underneath. Is that correct? Like the description of
the video, everything you put in. So I guess my question is, if I put it on
private, so let's say I have like three people helping me, somebody to upload the
words, somebody to upload the video, and then someone to put up the thumbnail,
you know, like, can you do that piecemeal or does one person have to do it all?
That's kind of my first question. Okay. Let me go here.
when all those little tasks are on multiple people and they're all waiting on
someone like, oh, I can't, I got the thumbnail ready and I can't add it until the
editor adds the video and like the description stuff. It's just best to have one
person be in charge of just gathering all the assets and just taking care of it
first and foremost. I'll just say that one because that's a lot of work. But what
you have is like under here, under settings, there's permissions.
And then you can do your invite there. And it's the different accesses of what
people can do. So what you're going to want to have is the editor. Oh,
let's see, I can't manage permissions or delete content.
Yes, this is the one that I like quite a bit, right there, editor limited. So what
they can do is they can upload videos that you, if they can go live, just, you
know, you're going to trust this person, but they can do this right here, is they
can upload videos, they can upload thumbnails, they can do anything to get the video
and schedule it. Okay. So that's a really good one.
I see. So it's not really a private option is actually a scheduling option that's
in there so that when you, I guess I was kind of confused, you know, when you
have private versus public, but there's actually a third option to schedule the video
to go either private or public. Is that what you're saying? The third option is the
schedule to go public. So I'm just going to put up a video right now. That's it.
That's a super short. Okay, let's go through the process. So I've got a video, do
-do -do -do. Oh, that came in as a short. I want to make sure it's got everything.
Even though it's a short. Okay. So what happens here is you've got your title,
your description. What it does is it pulls from what you already have set up as a
default. If you set those up under your settings, your channel settings and stuff,
you got your thumbnail that you can grab, your playlist.
If it's not made for kids, that's all of you pretty much. For some reason, Matt's
off wrote it, other channels that I work on, this is always defaulted to know it
doesn't include a paid promotion. A paid promotion is, even if somebody,
if you're not making money for it, but they gave you the product, then technically,
legally you're supposed to click that. Do a lot of people do? No. But yeah, so you
click on what it is there,
you run through all of this and add in tags, all that fun stuff. Now, what I like
to do, and I just want to make my life as simple as possible, is always just
click on reuse details, and I go to a previous video that falls into that bucket.
And I just click on that, and it pulls in, I can decide what data I wanted to
grab, And then I just hit reuse there. I can pull this title out here because it's
from my, from my bucket. So I just do Control C.
Then I hit enter three times. I add it there. I go to my playlist where that
video is on my homepage. So like, let's just go here. I'm just going to walk, do
the whole process.
So if it's a Matt's off road. Just pull that up here.
Do do the playlist. I go to my Matt's off road recovery playlist.
I let's say if it's that fifth video. I hate this thumbnail. I hate night videos.
This video is bombing today and I knew it was going to. But this is where to copy
and paste. See how it says and index equals number five. Now, as you add to that
playlist, that and index number five will not always be the fifth place. So you
actually copy before the ampersand. I feel like Jamie's probably listening to this
going, can I write some code that just grab it and do all that fun stuff? That'd
be pretty amazing if you could.
Then I just copy and paste it in right there. And I always like to just keep
seven. So then I like to have my top performing videos within the last seven days
and within that bucket there. So then usually whatever it is, I would delete and
make sure that there's just seven there. I got all the products to sell. I go and
upload my thumbnail. I make sure I add in the right playlist. So Matt's offered
recovery.
That's always the default. We'll put every single video in there. And then whatever
else there is for other playlists. And then I have the bulk of the tags are pretty
much the same. I don't really care. Okay, hold on. Let me stress that.
I don't want that to be heard the wrong way. When you have a new channel and all
that stuff, these things are vital and important. So like your tag's best practices
are super key because you want to give YouTube as much data as possible to find
your audience and grow. When YouTube learns your audience, people like, oh, Mr.
Bees doesn't do tags, things like that. You can pull vid IQ, you can see our tags.
You will see that there are times where I have forgotten to put tags on videos and
the videos get are some of the top performers or they have the wrong tags where
it's like record Olympics and record games, but it's not a builds video,
it's actually a recovery that has nothing to do with it. YouTube knows Matt's
audience extremely well. So all I do is I delete like three or four of these tags
here and just add three to four new tags for that current video each time because
of that. Can I ask you a question on that tag? You just mentioned vid IQ. So how
do you get vid IQ to generate those tags if you don't upload it to YouTube.
Is there a way to do it or no? So what you can do is if you have like even
the, the vid IQ basic, I don't know which count. I can't remember which count I
have vid IQ on. So, oh, I guess I got on this one. Check this out.
See this right here? Channel tags.
And then let me see. Does it not let me copy them anymore? I think you just.
Oh, he has, see how he has no video tags. That's what's going on there.
On the upgrade now where you can copy it. But what I do is I like to go do my
recon and research and see what are other channels within my niche and what are
some main tags that they all have that are common. And I get those tags and I
have those. And then I make my channel tags of who my, what my channel is overall,
that's maybe three, four, five keywords there. Then I have kind of like those tags
specifically for the videos and then like for the bucket and then the individual
video. And like when you're wanting to look for it with that individual video,
like go look at other channels or other videos that are talking about your same
subject and copy from there. And look for all those, those main, the patterns. Does
that make sense?
Yes, it does. Okay, cool. That's clear. Thanks. Yep. So that's tags.
Now, coming back up here to the description, the top of the fold, one thing that's
really, really good, best practice use when you're starting a new channel,
all that stuff. Like, You have key words up here with your title. You want to have
those keywords show up in the top of the fold of your description. When you're
first starting, make it a good paragraph. Three, it's like, what was a paragraph in
like elementary school? Three to five sentences. Elementary school level paragraph,
please. Three to like five seconds, five sentences max. And really hit those keywords
from your title.
As you can see here, it's one, two, three lines that appear. And then you have to
hit click, show more, right?
So always the juiciest of the best in those three lines. If you're pushing a
product, like right now on Matt's Off Road, let's just click on the worst video in
months, in months and months. You see right now we're pushing for the off -road
record games, so we have that link. Whenever I have any massive push that I want,
I always have my link in the description on the second line. On YouTube,
you have to put HTTPS, or if it's just HTTP colon forward slash forward slash,
if you don't, if you just put the WWW dot, it will not show up as a link. Okay,
cool. Let's skip.
It's like, hold up. Here, here's two things on that one. YouTube, especially, it's
been almost two years, they're not housing everyone's content for free. So if
someone's going to watch their videos, they're going to put ads on those videos
anyways. You might go, oh, but when I go on my dummy account, there's no ads on
my video. Maybe for you, but maybe you're not getting enough video views or
whatever, but YouTube put in their terms of service, they will advertise on all
videos. So if you don't have the 4 ,000 watchtime hours and the 1 ,000 subscribers,
your videos are still going to have ads on them. YouTube needs to generate income
to keep going. So first off then is you're just letting YouTube keep that ad
revenue. The second thing is you can always go into your Google AdSense account, and
you can block certain people from advertising on your videos. So if you know those
people, just go block them on your AdSense. T 'da.
It's a good move that way. So there's that one, monetization, make that money. You
can see we just got everything checked. We like to make money. Add suitability, read
through that. I don't think a lot of you will have any issues with that. So Matt's
always none above. It's like, oh my gosh, wow, rate your video carefully. Duh,
like warning, you're so high, what happens next? It's all good. Then we have our
end screens. You can add in subtitles if you like. YouTube does such a great job.
And now, this was really good three years ago and previous.
You have the ability to tag certain products, which is really nice that way,
especially if you have affiliate links and stuff like that. You can tag at certain
times in the video, so it pops up, especially if you have your Shopify account
connected or whatever. You can do that there, which is really nice. You can add in
your end screens and your cards. And then Last thing, Jailyu that you brought up,
oh, they have the checks, no issues found. This is nice for copyright, add
suitability. Then the next thing is the visibility. Okay,
private. Private means right there. Only you and people you choose to watch your
videos. So YouTube can collect data on it. If it's private, right,
Hold on me. Let me just double check. Hold on. Oh, yeah, yeah. No, no, no. Sorry,
that was wrong. Private is YouTube does not check the data on it. It doesn't go
out anywhere. If it's out embedded on another platform, it's not looking at it or
anything like that. So if you have any issues, it's pretty much nobody's, it's hard
to watch that. Now, Unlisted, unless Unlisted takes it off of YouTube, but your data
is still there. People can still watch it if they have the direct link.
So if you go and embed it on your course, if somebody grabs that link and embeds
it anywhere they want, if somebody has that link and they click on it, they click
on it, they put it up in their bar, it will take them straight to YouTube and
they can watch there. So YouTube can still get data on those people. So the one
thing that you have to be very careful about is if you have, if it's test content,
if it's like you upload two versions of the exact same video, one goes public and
one's unlisted, you can get dinged for that.
I don't like using unlisted at all. I just don't. Like I know a lot of people
that use YouTube unlisted for their courses and stuff like that. There are a lot of
people out there. There's things that can go scrape through people's accounts and
find unlisted videos and be able to get all those links. It's just not that safe
and secure. So I don't like it. Members only that's for people like kind of like
the on type thing, or only members have access to that. They have to be logged in.
It's more blocked down or lockdown. And then public. Right when you click save,
the video will immediately be launched. It is live right then and there, and YouTube
will send out notifications and all that stuff. You can do that. Now, the scheduling
is to schedule to make it go public at a specific time and date. So that's what
we always do. You'll see Matt's off road, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays at 7 .15
a .m. Now,
here's the wonderful part about this. And I have made this mistake before because
I'm the one that does all Matt's videos. And it's the learning curve of things is
you cannot set a default time zone. I really wish it would.
And because of that, it always defaults to the time zone that you are in at that
moment. So here's the wonderful story. Oh, someone's jumping in. Do to do.
Here's the wonderful story on that one. Two years ago,
It was two years ago in summer on a family vacation in Florida, got a video,
and it was got it late, it was Tuesday, went to upload it, got it all set,
everything was good.
But the time zone issue, I got me. I didn't have that one. But then,
so there's two things that I learned two lessons really quick. The next thing is
that when you upload, it will always default to the next day.
So I had to correct the video. There was an issue. So I got a text. So I started
uploading the video at 1150 or 1155 at night. I got to the visibility button at 12
.01. Because I already did it earlier, and I'm like, oh, yeah, I said all the
dates. It's all good. I just, like, went and I checked. I selected the time for 7
.15 a .m.
And it automatically defaulted the next day at 1201 because it was 1201 at night.
It picked Thursday. And so then I went, oh, crap. So I got a wonderful tech
sitting, sitting beachside like, hey, what's going on with the video. I'm like, oh,
what I'm like? Hold on. I need to schedule all that. Pull up my phone. There it
was. And so I just released it right then and there. So there you guys go. A lot
of these things you learn by experience.
So can I ask you a question? Yeah, of course. Okay. So on the, so if you had a
product that you wanted to push as a new channel, Because you said you would always
put it on the second line, but as a new channel, I should focus first on my
description, the three to five line, get the tag. And so where would you - If you
go into your video, you can make the call out to, hey, check for the link in the
description below.
I see. Okay. And then, so how does that tag function you mentioned go in? Like
when you put that in, like what does that what does the system do with that you're
talking about the tag the product
yeah so you have to go and add your products and stuff like that so this is with
your like your shopify account and stuff like that well yeah let's say um because
darrow was saying you know like i could sell um you know like a health wellness
packet or something like that like just go on amazon make an account And so it
would be a link to different things on Amazon. Does that apply here or no?
Yes. Yes, you can. So you want to look it up.
Let me see here. And that's what I, I don't do many tag products.
Let's go.
So you've got all these products. Now, if we have products, we don't have products.
Let me see.
As I know our shop by Recovery,
where is it?
I've never added them in. That's why it's not adding it, popping up. So I haven't
added our Matt's offer of recovery things in there. Daryl's like hold off on doing
that because not data. So all we do is we make specific callouts in the video of
check the link in the description below. And then we have the link there in the
description tagging to that. Now we have also, let me cancel this.
What we have also done is do do let's see here customize where is it earn
shopping there you go here in shopping YouTube has now connected Shopify and I think
there's it there might be a couple other store chat websites that you can connect
to YouTube as well but you can connect all your products to it, and then you can
decide which products to display and add them in. So that's where you have those
options there.
So what you have is like, see here with Matt's off road, there's all that stuff
right there. So everyone can see it.
Cool. Any other questions on that?
then, yeah, it's a paid promo video. But if it's our own product. What's that?
No, I think the question is, if in your video you don't mention the product,
then it's not a promo video. Is that correct? If you don't mention the product. So
here, now this is, I'm not a lawyer. Okay. So don't take this as legal advice from
what I've heard now is if you're using a product that you got paid for to use it,
it's a promo video because that product paid you and you're putting it in the
video. Even if you don't say, hey, go buy this product. If they paid you for it
and there was a transaction, that needs to be selected as a promo video. Right.
But if you own the product. If you own the product, you're not getting it's,
that's, that's you doing your own thing. That's not your, that's, yeah, that's not
another company.
Oh, when you put, okay, count on this is the second line. That's what you're asking
for, Celine. Yeah, no.
The promo videos, if it's your product, yeah, it's not a promo cool. Okay, next up,
we've got Dr. Ulrich, and then we're going to tie. So, Dr. Ollich, go ahead. unmute
yourself, and let's chat.
Hi, Justin.
First of all, I'm absolutely crushing it. Man, I got really big success. Thousands
of subscribers are spooling in. One video had,
I think, nearly about 200K. And, yeah, it's absolutely cool.
So I'm making progress here. And it's getting better from day to day.
So channel jump start. I love that.
So did I just a little question, did I get it right that on Friday? There's no
meeting because I jumped in a little bit later. Yes, correct.
One week you late, right? Yep, one week later. Okay, cool. So I've just a little
question on the YouTube live because I've never done a YouTube live.
So do you recommend to have somebody to manage the chat,
so a moderation function? Yes. Yes, okay, got it. Especially when it's your first
time, don't do it all on your own. Let's have somebody that's there with you.
And what software are you using? Are you doing the stream yard?
No, I'm doing e -cam. E -cam, okay. It's a little bit more intense, especially for
the first time, but that's okay. If you know the software, you learn the software,
that's awesome. And then they can pop up, they can pop up YouTube questions from
comments and things like that. Make sure you definitely do like the super chats.
Whenever a super chat pops up, give that precedence. Okay. Because they're paying
money. they're giving you money right then and there and having their name pop up
is really cool and that person can take care of that um if they're struggling with
it then they can just hey we've got a super chat come it came in and it's from
so and so and they read the question so that's another way that if there's a
struggle in a live stream just let it be and let them if they're in the that's
why it's good to have them be in the same room at first so they can then talk
and that's the thing about live streams is there's always issues and stuff like that
something's going to pop up and don't let it fluster you at all um and just yeah
keep it okay so what do you recommend just to do a FAQ let's say we do a FAQ on
hormones or on i don't know uh on on on on gut health or should i do a more
specific thing presenting um slides and stuff or what what what's your experience so
what i would look at is what are your top videos right now and you like what in
the last 28 days what's been your top video yeah it's about liver and detox and
stuff okay uh and in your real -time analytics what is your top three videos the
same okay then so yeah You got a lot of people that are wondering about detox.
Okay, cool. So I do it simply, an FAQ about detox. Basically,
talking had no slides sitting there. What I would do is because people are going to
get bored. And it's about re -engagement. So when people come on,
you're welcoming them,
starting to build them into the community of saying how awesome they are, build them
up, do some shoutouts and see, ask people like little basic questions, hey,
who's farthest? So I'm here. I'm located here. Who's farthest from here? And you
start looking at where everyone's from. Cool. It's those micro commitments. I mean,
Russell's talked about that too often. So in your live stream is getting people,
getting that chat activated. Then take a couple questions. Well,
it's first off like talking to the audience, thanking them, tell them how awesome
they are, how excited you've been about the growth that's come with the channel.
It's all because of them like this, and that they're here tonight or whatever time
it is. They're at, and then just personal questions people want to open up about.
Then while you're asking those questions, you're setting the stage for the live
stream of, hey, you're going to do a couple of questions right now, just a couple.
You're going to do awesome training because there,
crazy you start to see those comments you react to maybe three maybe five comments
and you get into a training aspect to go like really more in depth and as you're
doing like that training the great part about it is that you you answered questions
for each part of those sections of what people have what about that just like where
I did that walk through and Jail Liu was like hey can I can I ask a question?
I'm like, sure. Okay, gotcha. So then you're doing a teaching, you're clarifying and
getting that feedback from people so they're feeling like, hey, I want to be on
here. I'm getting my questions answered. And then at the end of it, like as you're
setting the stage and you let them know in the beginning, that at the end, you're
going to do an open Q &A. So that if you want right now,
we're going to be focusing on this. And at the end, I'm going to do an open Q &A.
So That was what I would do on a first live stream. Very simple structure that's
not too easy. And the only major thing is, because if you have a monitor up,
you can read questions from there. And then the person that's monitoring the chat,
they can be the one grabbing all the super chats and popping the super chats up on
the screen. Okay, gotcha. So what would you recommend? One hour, two hours for the
first one? Probably one hour. I wouldn't go too much because it's your first one.
You want to find your rhythm. Okay. And just get into it and just have a good
time. Okay. So one specific question on that and then I'm going to finish.
I tried to bring my employee up so we simulated a live chat on um not on private
what was the other stage not listed yeah unlisted and then youtube said that um my
employee has to open a channel to be able to um have this function do you have
you any information about that or should i reach out to youtube um support So,
hold on, you try to do, your employee tried to get onto your live stream?
Yes. And they couldn't get it from Unlisted?
Yes. Huh. She saw the chat, but we were not able to install her in a moderation
function. Oh, oh, oh, oh, and the moderation function. I'm like, hold on. She should
be able to watch. Okay. Yes, for a moderator, they have to have, YouTube needs to
know who they are. So just have them make like a channel in their name, an
account, and all that stuff. Okay, so she has to have a channel, right? Yeah. But
it doesn't have any videos or anything on that. I mean, like, I'm Daryl's, I'm a
moderator on Daryl's channel, but I don't have any videos or anything like that okay
cool thank you very much see you on friday in one week yeah awesome we're sending
even more better numbers i like it cool i'm so we got to chat i want to come get
some screenshots of your stuff so oh sure yeah i'm gonna send you involved right um
i'll i'll bug you and we'll get on i want to check out your channel i'll show you
what what we look at we'll do a little dive and stuff like that into the channel
and then i'll show you what i'll show you what type of
Nice.
Top right corner, you'll see the list of people that are on there, like Jumpster to
Admin, the My Name's in Red, and then Mods, Brianna. So if you're ever needing
access to something, Brianna is the person to reach out to. She's a moderator.
Jackson there is Daryl's assistant. I don't know if he checks Discord much. I would
never probably reach out to him on Discord. He's more of an email person if you're
trying to connect with Daryl or things like that. But yeah. No worries. I want to
wrap it for just a couple more quick ones. Frame .io. So is it important that the
editor is the subscriber so that it integrates with their Adobe premiere?
Or is it okay that I just subscribe to it and give him a password? I just want
to make it seamless for them and make sure I'm not setting up frame. I .O. to be
able to see the kind of the revisions and stuff. Yeah. So you can just, there's
different types of access where you, you have it as the main person.
Now, if it's, do they want to sync it so it automatically syncs to their frame .0
or what they can do is like, I'm, I'm not the member. I just have my own account
and I have access on the lower end. And So I can upload videos,
but I can't delete other people's videos if they upload onto frame .io or anything
like that. I can only delete the videos that I upload. So what we have is Daryl's
the owner of the account. And you're going to have to forgive me because he's been
grandfathered in. So what we have may cost money,
more money for every person that you bring in. So what we do is we have Daryl as
the main owner, then he has the one team member who's our editor that's been with
him for over a decade, Alex. And then there's all of us as just regular people
that we've been invited to the collaborations. So within those invites,
I can upload videos like I said, but I can't delete other people's videos off
there. I have to have Alex managing frame .io so when our other creators they add
their videos if they're already posted on youtube he goes in and he just keeps it
clean and manages it uh so yeah jambi okay yeah you can have two team members
awesome so have one of your editors beat that team member and got it you're golden
got it and then what one other thing i want to point out on frame dot a i let
me see if i let me just pull it up which i love i love this and i think it's
it's just really good practice to keep things clean and um
uh for editors and for you so oh let me just give this as an example i'm going
do it right now because we have a mess up
oh yeah and unlimited others can watch heads up on that one is that your team
member, they can drop a review link. The review link is good for people that will
never come into your frame .io again. So they just need to review a video. But if
they're going to be part of the process, you're going to want to invite them to
the project.
There's that one there. Now, do you, I like how this rapid fire and I go into
like five minutes of talking about it. So Here's our thing right here. Here's first
version. Here's second version right there. Even though there's two different editors,
you can see who are like names of the editors. One thing that I love about frame
.io, and I think this is a lot better is, let me go back to YouTube,
right here to review videos, this part. See how it says V2 on here? Yep.
What's nice about that is while you're watching the video, and this happens quite
often, I hate GoPro's at night. I'm just going to say this right now. And this is
why I knew this video was going to flop. Look how horrible that picture quality is.
Oh, it killed me.
So bad. So bad. Now, what you can do here is you can toggle easily between the
two projects. So when you're at a certain point, you can say, oh, I left a comment
on there. Did they miss it or whatnot? You can easily toggle between them. Now, on
this previous one, where I was on this push is, when you upload, it makes it, it's
so easy. All you do is grab the new version and put it over the top. I'm not
going to do it right now, but it creates that as now version number two,
but it's the top one that you see. Got it. I'm just going to do it. I don't care
about that. So there we go. See how it says V2 and Jonah's on the top with the
three. Alex's was the original at three something minutes. Now we have this one. And
so you can easily click between the versions. It makes it so nice to just organize
your content and on here. I love it. I love it.
Two quick ones. If you're doing a course, you have a landing page, you're embedded
like your video sales letter or you're just kind of explanation of your product or
pitch. Are you just hosting that in like click funnels on the actual native wherever
the landing page is? Are you using Vimeo? Vimeo? Well, hold on. 2 .0 lets you put
it up on the on the site now right okay so i'm just going to we're migrating
slowly over to 2 .0 um so we haven't haven't done that yet and train someone to do
vid summit on 2 .0 and so i got to go look to see if they did it on vimeo or
if they did it on the main site got it's all of like the membership stuff too is
hosted in 2 .0 it's going to be hosted on the an actual ClickFunnels membership
area.
all that other stuff. It's all integrated there. So it's really cool that way. It's
super nice. Little bugs, but they're crushing it. So it's nice. And then last
question, I believe like two or three weeks ago, you talked about an affiliate,
affiliated editor that you guys share with the group. Oh, yeah. And then maybe
somebody that does thumbnails also. If you can. Thumbails I'm struggling on.
Easy Um, yes, I just got to get them our information for the affiliating, but let
me just drop the link. Tell them we sent you. Yep. They actually do some
thumbnails. I don't know their quality, but they do. I just, I've never checked
their thumbnails. So I can't speak into that one. Thank you.
This is great. Thank you, Justin. You guys want to see a cool trick I learned
today about thumbnails yes there we go i got you and jamie the only ones that care
okay i know everyone talking about chat gtp a lot and it's about how to get like
good information from them so i was oh no it's that capacity right now i just need
to record it
I just need to record. I did it with it. Wait, Justin, try to like, like refresh
it because that happened. Oh, I did. Like, oh, I'm in now. I knew you'd get in.
Okay, here we go. Do, do,
do, do.
So, let me pull up my YouTube example that it made me cry.
And I talked to them. I said, you made me cry.
Okay.
Here we go. So this guy, Scott, he is so cool. Formula,
a former Formula One race car driver, starting this new channel right here,
Overdrive. He's got his other channel, Driver 61, because that was his number as he
drove and raced at over 200 miles an hour. And he's a Brit. He's so cool. So they
started this channel recently. It's about a year old. And they had this, we talked
about low lift. And I'm like, okay, the thumbnail to me, it's okay.
Like,
What's missing for me when I think of a race, speed,
anxiety, stress, like gripping, and just, yeah,
yeah, when you're in a car and you're driving way too, a whole lot faster than you
should, you feel that, that emotion, if you guys know what I'm talking about. And I
go, I don't feel that all in this race that there's any any level of stakes at
hand of is it your safety is it like money whatever the stakes will be i just i'm
not feeling it there and um last night i went on to chat gt pt and um i asked
it this question now it's about how you ask the question the first thing i did
did, as I said, make me, knowing that it's not, it's, make me a YouTube thumbnail
for a race
across London between a man on a scooter and a race car.
put them in a prompt and say, I need a description for a YouTube thumbnail with
this type of title and this, and you create an awesome description, and it gives
you this one. The background could show an iconic London landmarks, such as Big Ben,
the London Eye, you know, and then it's like, and it could have the text could
read. And that to me is like the worst text and the worst thing, That's so much
text across a thumbnail. But if you need a text, you can say how you can amplify
it, like the amazing race or whatever.
What's faster or whatever in bold eye catching. Now, what I did is I'm like,
okay, those are some cool elements. Now, then the next thing is there's two more
steps I took. Okay, so.
Oops.
Dang, what I put that one in? They even told me how to have the person standing
I've taken too long for me.
I am impatient in this training.
Can I ask you a question on the cloud vision while you're talking about thumbnails?
So when you upload the cloud Vision, it'll tell you if it's, I don't know,
like, I remember adjectives, like, it's Racy content or this or that. So if you put
an image, like I've noticed, if I put an image of a blonde, of a good looking
blonde person that has a facial expression that's not happy, then it doesn't like
that image, right? So I'm not too worried on that one as much.
I think, Like Cloud Vision, Darrell talked about that. That was four years ago.
It's to give some information, but don't go too deep in the woods,
in the weeds on that one, because it can help a little bit if you're struggling.
But when you start to see the patterns on YouTube, and then you have your title,
your description, and your tags, right, then YouTube's going to pick that up. So as
a new channel, look at what's working on pretty well on YouTube and go from there.
And it will learn your audience. So, yeah, Daryl's thought about taking that cloud
vision part out of it. So just a heads up. Okay. Here,
it looks nice. It's got my history here. So here is the first one. Make a YouTube
channel or make this right here. Here's where gave this one. They'll give me a
description of YouTube thumbnail for a race across London between a man on a scooter
and a race car. And this is what I really liked about. Kind of gave my mind
around what's the emotion to pull out. It said, the background is blurred to
emphasize the intense speed of the racers. The man on the scooter is leaning forward
with a determined expression with the race car is in a blur motion as it speeds
past. And I go right here, he is kind of leaning forward, but see how far back he
is. The emotion is missing out on it for me. And I'm just like, oh, man,
like that's, that's where it pulls that in. And we talked about that by doing
multiple prompts. And then I said, you know, give me five descriptions of different
YouTube thumbnails. And then what you can do is you can take these five descriptions
and you can put each one into a prompt about, hey, expand on this. And this helps
really get your creative mindset flowing on what that should look like.
And other people like, oh, then you go to Dolly, which is on the Open AI. And you
can put that in there and create an image to help, but it's not there yet. But
this is, I feel that this is really good. As you work through this process, it
helps move the process faster, especially if you're not used to thumbnails. And what
was funny is that on this call that I was talking to these three gentlemen,
one of them was a woodworker. And I helped him with a thumbnail last week. I told
him, I want the background a little bit darker. It was a hidden bar that he built
in his house that it just popped out, popped up from the floor. And it just
glowed. It was so cool. I'm like, I need you to darken the wall for me. You
really need to make the lights pops with the eyes tracked here. I need you on the
bottom, bottom corner of it looking up. I want a red arrow going with a hidden
bar. And then he puts that in the prompt and it came up almost to the T of what
I explained to him and everything, except for the phrase. It put on this like long
title of everything. But it was like, yeah, man,
It helps, AI.
Cool. Do you guys like that little tip? Is that going to be some of you? That was
awesome. That was very awesome. Cool. Well, then, on that note, I've got another
call I need to jump on, training call. So everyone, it's been really good. We'll
have another call next Wednesday, 10 a .m. Mountain Time, noon Eastern, 11 Central,
and 9 Pacific. And we'll just keep doing.