7 Analyzing Your Videos & Data

Hey, jump starters. Now we're going to talk about the tools that you need as a
content creator to help you become successful with your videos.
Now, I can tell you, there is a lot of tools out there, but there's tools that
actually can help us make better decisions and the type of decisions that we want
to make and the type of decisions that's all around.
how to engage and so on. And the number one tool that I use 99 .9 % of the time
is YouTube analytics. And I can tell you that this is a great system.
YouTube has given us a suite of tools to really help us understand the relationship
data of audiences and also our videos and that how it corresponds together.
Now, I actually put together a system over years and years and of helping Many
people achieve their goals of getting gold play buttons, millions and billions and
billions of views. And ultimately, this system is what I'm going to be teaching you
here of really how to analyze your content, what to look at, what not to look at,
what to avoid, and what not to worry about. Like, that's going to be great. And it
has everything to do with YouTube analytics. Now, if you look below this video,
you're going to see some other tools that you might be familiar with, you might
have access to. What I wanted to do is to make sure that as you purchase this
Channel Jumpstart, that you have access to the same tools that I use. And you'll
see links below, you can get your free access out there to the different tools that
we have. Also, you have access during the time you're part of Channel Jumpstart.
Now, this is where it gets really cool. So once we get a little bit deeper into
channel jumpstart, I'm going to show you how I use these different tools. We're not
going to get in all the details now, but as we get to that section where we're
using a tool, I'll show you my system of what I do to make a better decision,
because when we make data -driven decisions, we increase the probability for us to
succeed. So I'm super excited to have you a part of Channel Jumpstart, and I will
see you on the next video.

PT2

It is time. It is time. It is time. I really am excited about section 7 and also
8. They're actually my favorite. It's where we really start to implement the channel
jumpstart system. Now, we've been talking about this is not a course, but a system.
And ultimately, it really goes in depth of the scientific process.
success is for multiple YouTube channels because as we know how to analyze and
adjust, we know how to really navigate our content strategy on YouTube, which is the
most important thing. And so all things actually lead towards your content strategy,
how it needs to evolve as you evolve, but also as you actually understand the data
is coming in on who's actually watching what, how the content's being responded to,
and so on. So ultimately, I have found when jump starters actually start to have
things click, they actually understand how to analyze it and come up with great
assumptions to test. And that's what we're trying to teach you here in Section 7
and 8. And the whole reason why we do Section 7 and Section 8 is to understand
the data and test the data so it can become our roadmap, our roadmap for content
success. And as we get more data, we're able to validate it and see what works,
what doesn't work, what's hot, what's not hot, what's trending, and so on to help
you make better data -driven decisions because what's what we want to do. We want to
actually make data -driven decisions to help us know how to navigate the landscape of
YouTube. Now, YouTube actually has the most robust analytics out there. And there is
so much data that I think it does two things for creators. Now, you might be a
creator that gets overwhelmed with data and gets overwhelmed with analytics or you're
really petrified of analytics and we'll put you over here in this category. Or you
might be able to be in this category where you want to know the analytics and
you're reading into the analytics, but it's not really making sense. And I've done
tons of consultations over the course of my career. And I always get the
consultation question in twofold. The first fold would be, you know, I'm getting a
high average view duration. I'm giving a high click through, but I'm not getting any
views, you know, what's going on here. And they're missing really what's actually
happening. Or I get the other thing where the creator is like, I never look at
analytics. I'm just looking at the view count. And like, well, both are not
necessarily the best. And ultimately, this beginning of Section 7 is to get you
comfortable of what to look at and what to see and what to do very specifically as
a creator. Now, as a jump starter, I don't want you so obsessed with the analytics
that you don't do anything. Analytics and data is good for us to make decisions to
know what to do.
understanding of what's actually happening behind the scenes. And this data helps us
really as creators, really understand our audience and what makes the video really,
really hit that we call a banger.
So I don't want you to get stuck in the data. I don't want you to have an
analysis paralysis. I don't want you to get so focused in on specific data points
that you miss the whole picture. So as jump starters, you're going to commit to
actually deep dive into this content twice a month, okay, at the beginning of the
month, at the middle of the month. And I'm going to show you in section seven
exactly what we're looking for to really know how to pull the information and how
to gauge what's actually happening on our channel. Can you commit to that? That's
something that you need to do. Now, I want you to write down on a piece of paper.
I commit, Darrell, I commit to do this twice a month. Now, we're going to be
looking at data a little bit more than twice a month, but I only want you to deep
dive twice a month. I think it's a very healthy way to do it. It gives you a
kind of a scope of what's actually happening. And then it also helps with your
preparation for your upcoming videos. Now the channel jump start system is simple.
It's plan, execute, analyze, and adjust. I know I mentioned that a little bit
earlier in this training and throughout the different sections, but ultimately this is
where the rubber meets the road because we're doing a lot of planning and we
execute it on the plan. Now we're going to analyze a little bit deeper. and what
we're trying to find.
and bots that really control that gives the data point back to the AI. Now, the AI
has two specific goals. One is trying to predict what the viewer wants to watch,
and the second goal is to keep them on the platform longer. So ultimately, our
understanding of the patterns we're looking for is to understand the viewer at so
micro -level that we know and predict what the viewer wants to watch. And as we
predict that, YouTube is actually going to find more people like that because that's
the whole goal of the YouTube AI. Now, this is the pattern recognition and
ultimately I like to get really, really granular with this. And I think this is
really what sets me apart from other YouTube consultants or strategists is because we
deep dive into the viewer. And that's where the big bulk of the success is because
once we're in line with the viewer, it's really easy to make those decisions to
make the right type of decisions on what you want to make based on how it's being
responded to or, you know, how your creativity will come out when it comes in these
specific verticals or specific buckets. Now there is a method that you do very in
-depth investigation. It's something that an investigative journalist used and also
investigators with the FBI and police. And ultimately it goes back to a poet that
actually was in 1902, Rupyard Kipling, and basically these are the Kipling method or
the Kipling questions that he was able to put together in a way that would really
give you the truth of what's actually happening. His poem says, I keep six honest
serving men. They taught me all I knew. Their names are what and why and when and
how and where and who. Six universal questions. So this is a very interesting poem,
but ultimately it really helps us deep dive into the things that we've heard about
before is the 5Ws and the 1H, right? And so that's what we're actually looking at
and that's what we're trying to find is the patterns of this. Now, I want to
reiterate this really, really important point. The thing that you need to focus in
on is the viewer. And with the viewer, we're looking at five, five things the
sixth, right? So the five Ws and the sixth, which is an H. And I really want to
understand really in depth that process. And that's gonna help me make better
decisions on my content strategy and know how to pivot. Now the five Ws are who,
what, where, why, when, and how. And as you can see in this graph, they're all
around your content strategy. So the more that you understand that, the better your
content strategy is going to be because what we want to do is really know what our
viewers care about and what our content's about. And we have that sweet spot, that
crossover data that is really making the content more powerful. And when that content
is more powerful, it's going to connect with the viewer. And as it connects, it's
going to do what we call the viral feedback loop. Okay. So basically, when I
actually watch and consume something, I'm already saying, oh, this hit me so to the
core. As a human, I want to share it. This Kipling method is really important to
really understand and something that we're going to deep dive into. The first W is
where. I can honestly say I'm obsessed where the traffic's actually coming from.
And there's a reason why I'm obsessed. Because where we know it comes from, you're
going to treat it differently. So, for example, if the traffic's actually coming
through search, you're going to respond differently on your strategies and tactics as
you would if it was coming from the home page. If it was coming from the homepage,
then the subscription feed. If it's coming differently from the subscription feed to
the suggested videos. Now, I know all this might kind of blend together all in just
views for you, but I want you to commit as a jump starter to really deep dive
into this because ultimately, when you understand where the traffic's coming from,
it's going to give you specific things. Like, for example, if I'm searching for
something and I'm going to do this because that's archaic and that's how you search
for something, right? People are looking for specific things they want to find. These
are how -to videos. These are instructional videos. These might be things that they're
looking to solve a problem or they're looking to be entertained, but they just don't
necessarily see it in their daily viewing experience. They're really actively seeking
those specific videos and really actively seeking very specific things. Their viewer
journey starts with them seeking. Now, there's a difference between that versus their
viewer journey when they just open up the YouTube homepage and says, oh, look at
this title and thumbnail that I'm really connected with and click on it. That's a
different viewing experience. Or more Certainly, they're basically in the short shelf
and they're just wiping up and they have no option to pick, basically YouTube's
telling them this there. So these are all different traffic sources and ultimately
they have different types of things that viewers are actually trying to do to grab
that information. Now, with that, with that traffic source, it can help us really
understand what to pivot, how to actually take them along their viewer's journey so
they can consume more of your videos because because if they only consume one video,
that is not a good thing. What we're trying to do is to get them to watch a
video, click on it, then watch to the end, and then click on another video, and
then another video. So you have that binge effect. And it doesn't matter if they're
coming through search. It doesn't matter if they're going through home. That's what
we're trying to accomplish, because then we're actually fulfilling with the second
goal that YouTube has, which is keeping them on the platform longer. And that's an
analytic that we're going to deep dive into of the average view per viewer. But
we'll get to that in a little bit. The next W in the 5Ws is what. What are they
watching? I want to know out of all our library, that's all the videos that you
actually have and uploaded and are live out there for the world, what videos are
getting the views right now. So that's why I look very closely at the real -time
analytics. It gives me a really good understanding of what's actually bringing in the
momentum right now on your channel and then ultimately what YouTube is putting out
there to the world for the people to connect with. And you'll see you could drill
in deeper on any of these videos and see the different traffic sources that are
coming off it. And we're going to show you all this. But ultimately it's helping me
understand, you know, where the traffic's coming from, what they're watching, and what
makes it very unique. Now, some of the things I'm looking for are content that I
can see patterns in. So the first thing that I look for is the age of the video.
Is it all brand new videos? Is it half brand new videos? Is it some
understand what we're going to create next and what's working and what's not. And
ultimately, when we understand what's actually happening in your back end, when the
videos are actually performing or not, that's going to give us the data that we
need to make better decisions. Now the third W is the who. This is one that we
went way in depth on in section two, section three, where we're trying to come up
with the viewer avatar. Well, we're able to take that information and dig a little
bit deeper because you know we're making assumptions before we're trying to validate
it and basically what we're looking at is a couple key things first off we were
looking at the demographics this is like how old they are and where they're from
and all the easy data that comes in and ultimately we want to drill down a little
bit deeper into the geographics like we want to know what states they're actually
coming from if you're really targeting the united states how much is in the u .s
versus the uk versus Canada versus the Philippines versus Indonesia. Ultimately, we
want to understand regionally where they're at. Because when we understand regionally,
we can actually make better decisions. So if we actually had our number one traffic
source with the US be in Texas versus California, we might approach it a little bit
different because it's on central time zone instead of Pacific time zone. There's
different types of metropolitan areas in LA versus in Texas.
So basically we're trying to get a little bit more data points to say okay.
watches your videos, but also becomes an active viewer and churn rate. So the churn
rate is when they stop watching your content. So YouTube's really specific on it. I
went in depth on a vid summit presentation I did about four or five years ago.
This is what they really, really care about. And so when I go into the analytics,
I'm looking very specifically on these key metrics. Number one is the new viewer.
I want to know how many new viewers are coming on. This is also known as unique
viewers okay these this new viewer you
that came back and watched another video. So they watched more than one would be a
returning viewer. And over the course of the date range that you put in there,
YouTube will be very specific on how many people are active and how many people are
returning. So basically you have viewers and then you have returning viewers. Now, I
hope that makes a lot of sense. And our goal is to always bring new viewers in,
top of the funnel videos, things that will reach out to a broader audience and then
convert those viewers into returning viewers. That means getting them to watch more
than one video. This by far is one of the most difficult things that you do as a
creator because getting that first initial view, I actually think is pretty easy. But
to get them to come back and be loyal to you, it's going to take a lot of work.
It's going to take a lot of connection. It needs to be something that we work on
very, very specifically as channel jumpstart. It's something if you want success, that
loyalty factor needs to be there. Now, I know that a lot of you have seen
YouTubers that have put out content and they don't have the best thumbnail and they
don't have the best title, but they get the views. Have you ever wondered that?
Well, I've been able to pill back behind the curtains and see their analytics, and
I can tell you, their returning viewer ratio is extremely high. they have a loyalty
factor far greater and beyond what you can ever imagine. Now, the goal would be is
to have a really good mix. And so they're not really utilizing the videos. They're
only getting the returning viewers and not really reaching out to get the new
viewers coming in. Because if you do that, basically you're going to really expand.
Here's the thing of getting a good mix. Now, in VidSummit, we actually had the
person that's in charge of the team of the AI at YouTube present at VidSummit and
he asked everyone the question you know how many views that was coming from Mr.
Beast were new viewers that never watched any of his videos and everyone made a
guess and he actually had me make a guess and and ultimately I was off I was off
a little bit I was pretty close but I was off a little bit this is what he said
what percentage of Mr. Beast's unique viewers from the past 28 days were new to Mr.
Beast's channel. And by new here,
I'm saying that they're new if they hadn't watched the channel at all in the past
year. Okay? So Mr. Beast, he's got 70 million subs.
Say he had 70 million viewers this month. How many, what percentage of those do you
think were new to the channel?
All right.
I asked Daryl,
Darrell guessed 20, which I thought was actually a good guess.
This data is available for your your channel analytics, but unfortunately, and I'm
working with the analytics team to make it easier. And Mr. Beast, actually, I check
with him that he was comfortable with me sharing his data here.
You can see in your audience tab, you got unique viewers, you got returning viewers,
and if you want to see new viewers, unfortunately you have to do the math.
And this graph is misleading actually which is another thing I want them to fix you
can see on a daily basis how much your new viewers are in your returning viewers
but what this graph doesn't make clear is that often these new viewers on each day
are different and and the the returning viewers are often the same from day to day
and so if you actually look, if you sum up across a month, the new viewers sum up
a lot higher than it looks in the graph. If you haven't had time to do the math
yet, it's 34 % of people who watched Mr. Beast in the past month had not watched
in the previous year. So I tend to think of Mr. Beast as a pretty mature channel
that has a lot of reach out there. It's already gotten 70 million people to click
the red button, but he still has an opportunity. More than a third of his audience
in the past month are new to Mr. Beast. And so if Mr. Beast has,
you know, this much new audience flowing in, I bet you if you look at your
channel, you probably find something similar, maybe even higher percentages of some
new viewers. And so my message to you is think about those viewers as well as your
opportunity. Again,
you have your core viewers, but there's a lot of casual viewers. There's the 70 %
from earlier who are not watching any of your new uploads, but they are engaging
with your channel. Don't forget about those viewers and bringing them in.
That's going to be key to your growth? To really grow and to get more views,
you've got to go out to a broader audience. And ultimately, you have a good mix
between the returning viewer. That's that loyalty factor that we're looking for and
getting the new viewer to come in, which is something that we want YouTube to do.
Now, there's a graph here in analytics. I can show you. There's two lines. One's
blue, one's purple. Basically, blue is the new viewer that's coming in, and purple
is the returning viewer. Basically, we want purple on top. We want that on top. We
want as high as on top as possible. However, we want the blue line to intersect at
times or come up where it meets the purple, because that's an ingest of new viewers
coming in. And as new viewers coming in, guess what happens? If we do the channel
jumpstart system, we actually convert them into returning viewers. And so that's kind
of our goal. Now, part of the WHO, we're also looking at subscribers. And we're
seeing that loyalty. We're actually seeing how many subscribers in a given period of
time are actually watching our videos. It's going to be a lot lower than what you
think. And that's something that we want to get our subscribers to be active and we
want them to be active viewers. Now, here's a very specific note that YouTube does
not care about subscribers, but YouTube cares about active viewers. That's why I'm so
obsessed with active viewers. And ultimately, that translates over to those subscribers
part of the who is we're really trying to understand the psychology of what's
actually going on so if I have new viewers coming in and my my blue is way above
the purple and it's just new views coming in then people are actively seeking a
video that's generally the case of what I look for so if I see that I just
probably see that hey this might be a tutorial or an informational channel or it's
a channel that actually gets tons of views on maybe four or five.
Now, if the returning viewer is high and the new viewers low, that's pretty much
telling me there's extreme loyalty, but I'm not opening up and getting new viewers
coming in. And that's where a lot of channels on YouTube actually hit the plateau
stage, where they're just really not growing. They're just always getting the same
amount of views, but their subscribers go up. And they're just like, man, they're
really frustrated. And that's where they kind of pivot down to. I've seen them
really regress down where they're really not getting new audiences coming on and
they're just exhausting that audience and the churn rate of them losing active
viewers is pretty high. Okay, now the next W is win. Now, win is a very important
thing and it's something that we look very in detail when we try to analyze. And
ultimately, in this section, I want to know what time of the day, what day of the
week. And so that's kind of the win factor as well. Now, we'll also go a little
bit more in depth, a little bit later, on knowing the win, the duration of the
analytics that we're looking at, you know, over a seven -day period or real -time or,
you know, 28 -day or 90 -day or even longer. Ultimately, we're trying to really deep
dive into that. We'll get to that in a later video. And the other W is why. Why
are they watching this video? Why is this video getting views right now? Why is
this video responding really?
is asking, is it inspiring it? Is it educating it? Is it entertaining them? Are
they bored? Why are they watching this? So like for me, you know, when someone's
coming through the browse feature, I know that they're a little bit more active
YouTuber because they're going to the homepage and clicking on it. They might come
from entertainment. They want to be inspired. They might want to be educated or they
might just be bored. And so what we need to do is to kind of draw conclusions and
say, okay, maybe some are coming for this or some are coming for that. And it
gives us kind of a help to really,
us really understand and knowing exactly what's going on with that viewer. And then
we can be able to see, you know, how people respond. And some of the things that
we look at very specifically of the why is reading through comments. Like we want
to read through comments and we want to be able to see because a lot of people
are vocal of what they got out of it. Oh, I really like this. Hanging out a
specific time code and making a response. I see that a lot and it helps us really
understand what's actually happening in that video. We're also looking on why in a
couple things. If we see a spike of new viewers, we're asking why. Why did that
happen? Why is that happening? One of the biggest mistakes that a lot of creators
make, they assume it's happening because they just released a video or they just did
a live stream. They're really not looking at the traffic source. And that's why we
really deep dive into the traffic source, I'm telling you, because you're able to
see, oh, it was maybe an earlier video that just popped off, you you know, 20 days
later, 100 days later, you know, we need to be very, very sensitive what's actually
happening because sometimes when we see a spike, we make wrong assumptions, and
that's why we need to ask why. Why did that spike? What is going on? Who's doing
what and where did it come from? I mean, basically, we're hitting all the Ws here.
And ultimately, that's giving us better decisions of how to actually create a plan
or understand what's going on on our channel. So Rudard Kipling does the Kipling
method or the Kippin questions. We've done all the Ws and now we're going to talk
about the H. That's how. This one's a little bit more complicated and this is
something that I want to just really just kind of not gloss over, but just give
you a little bit of understanding. My thing with this is how are we going to
respond with this data that we're getting with the W's, how are we going to
respond? And ultimately, that is pretty much section 8 that we're going to really
deep dive in the how because we're taking all this data that's coming in from the
5Ws and we're trying to make assumptions on what's actually happening. It's kind of
like popping the hood and seeing the engine and see where it's running and seeing
where we need to correct the timing or also, you know, fix a part or whatever.
It's just giving us that data point on how we need to fix it. And so how we need
to fix it is more in depth on Section 8, and we'll actually deep dive into that
for the whole section. And it's going to help you understand how you're going to
create your next content strategy plan and how you're going to adjust. That
adjustment is really important because that becomes your new plan. To really wrap up
this training, I want to focus in on two really important things. So part of the
channel jumpstart system is really understanding what we covered here in this video,
but we need to put the right lens on. We need to be able to look at very
specific times and really understand what's going on. And there's actually a magical
number on YouTube. That magical number exists for a very long time since 2007.
And that magical number is 90, 90 days. Now,
why would I say 90 days on YouTube? Well, I can tell you, 90 days is the cycle
that YouTube really looks at momentum and everything that's going on. And there's
actually very specific trends. One of the things I always freak out creators is show
them that 90 day cycle that it is almost wash, rinse, and repeat what the AI is
doing. The AI is really smart and is able to see things. But the reason why we're
looking at a 90 lens is because it was actually instituted in the AI because of
advertising. Advertisers work in a 90 -day cycle, and they work in quarters.
Now, I don't want you to really look at quarters because it's not going to give
you the full picture. And so what we're going to do is have 90 days and compare
the previous 90 days. And if you go two days, you do look at that 90 days versus
the previous 90 days. So ultimately, we're looking at a lens of 90 days. Now,
here's where the channel jumpstart system is. We need to be able to have a
midpoint. That is our midpoint of when we're analyzing. We can go out farther, where
we can go out to 365 days or back two years. But that is our midpoint. And if we
want to put that lens on to go deeper, where we can go 60 days or 28 days or
seven days, we need to do that. But our midpoint always starts with 90 days. That
gives us actually the complete picture of what's actually happening on a channel and
we're not making bad decisions because of something that's happening in a month, not
necessarily over the course of a 90 day cycle. And I've literally warned content
creators over and over again that they pivot way too quick because they're looking
at data in real time or they're looking at data in seven days. We always look at
data in 90 days and drill down or we drill back. So as a jump starter, I want
you to commit, always look at the 90 day cycle and drill down and drill back. Does
that sound good? Go ahead. And I really want you to do it this way because
ultimately when you are looking at a 90D lens, it gives you actually a better
complete picture because you're in line with the algorithm. And ultimately, when
you're in line with the algorithm, you can kind of see, because YouTube makes it
really easy, they kind of do a little cheat sheet. You can see like seven days, we
have 28 days, we have 90 days, and so on that basically is how the algorithm is
looking at things and then ultimately i've found that 90 days is the best cycle to
really understand what's going on because i've found that any channel is being
consistent over 90 day period will gain momentum and will also increase their
baselines now that's the second thing we're going to cover is baselines part of
understanding all this data is understanding what our baseline is. Now, the biggest
mistake that I have found that content creators mistake over and over again is they
try to get data off of other people's channels and they don't even really understand
what that data is. Now, in this system, I'm going to teach you exactly what you
need to look at and what a baseline is. Now, what a baseline is, is your average,
your average across whatever we're analyzing. And we're going to go in depth of what
that average is. Now, the most important thing is that we're trying to be above
average all the time. If you're always above average over a consistent period of
time, i .e. 90 days, what happens magically? You increase your baseline. That's what
we're trying to do is increase your baseline. As you increase your baseline, guess
what happens? You get more views. You get more views, you make more money. That is
increasing the baseline and that's why it's so important to understand baselines. Now,
here in Channel Jumpstart, we have tools to help you understand the baseline setting
and know where your baseline's at. And ultimately, you can go into analytics and
we're going to show you exactly there as well. But I don't want you to compare
yourself against other people because every channel is unique. Every back end is
unique. Every piece of content is unique. There are different viewers connecting in
different ways. And I've seen it over and over again. And one of the biggest
mistakes I see creators make is they're trying to analyze somebody else's channel and
say, oh, I need to be up to par. When their click rate could be a little lower
and their focus
and we're going to try to get above baseline, right? That's what we're trying to
do. And then when we do it above baseline, we're saying, what, what are we doing
here? And we're trying to do that more consistently. Because if we consistently be
above the baseline, that's when we consistently grow. When we consistently grow,
that's when we consistently make more money. And that's what's all about here on
Channel Jump Start. There's so much here to really go over. And I want to talk
about the very, very last thing. What we're trying to do is really understand and
time our engine perfectly here of really knowing what we're looking at, what needs
to be fixed. And so that's why the 5Ws, the 1H is really important because as we
understand the 5Ws, it will help us understand what we need to do, how we need to
course correct, what we need to do very specifically of engaging that audience. Now,
a lot of this is going to be done in the advanced mode of analytics, and I know
this might intimidate you. And I think that some of you are really intimidated by
analytics. I want you to push that outside your head. You have me to mentor you
along the way here in Channel Jumpstart. So I'm really excited for this section.
Please, please, please watch this video again and really comprehend it. We went
through so much. And it's really going to help you make better decisions as a
content creator. I need you to really absorb it. Even in watch it three or four
times is really important because this is the key that I found that when the light
bulb kicks on for a creator with the Jumpstarter, it's usually when they actually
understand this.

PT3

Hey jump starters we're about ready to jump right into analytics and before we do I
want to be able to put a couple words out to you to really start thinking and
processing this every jump starter we come at different levels and ultimately some of
you might be a little bit more advanced and others you might be just learning this
for the first time. What I like to do is really go to the simplicity of what the
Channel Jump Start system is. And we actually talked about the methodology a little
bit earlier in the training in Section 7, but now we're going to actually do
practical things that we look at. Some of you will have the tendency to skip ahead,
and I warn you never to skip ahead. You never know what you're going to get to
give that little aha moment, that little clarity that you need. And sometimes it
comes out in very simple videos and you're able to translate and put it into other
things. So that being said, please do not skip this video because it's like
Analytics 101, but it's going to lead to a masterclass of analytics,
which I'm really excited in the next video. So let's go ahead and jump over to the
computer. Okay, we are here at the computer and ready to dive into analytics. I
can't wait to get into the hood of analytics. Now there's a couple words of
check it out. But right now, when you're in the creator studio, you have a channel
dashboard, and they basically give us little snippets or widgets, is what they call
it, where we can get a quick glance of what's happening on our channel. We can see
the latest performance of our videos. This is the video they just barely released
about a day in a couple hours ago. You can see that it's 10 out of 10.
When you roll over this, it pops up this icon. And you can drill down to each
specific video if you want to see a specific video or you can look at this
indicator right here saying that we are below typical and you can see right here
too under views the view count it's gray. It's down. That means it is down.
It's below typical But the average view duration is up. So I have a lot of hope
for this video We'll be able to analyze just a little bit later to see what's
actually going on here. And then you can see channel analytics, current subscribers,
how many subscribers are gained in the last 28 days. And then it gives you a
summary. We love seeing green arrows. I love it. I love green arrows. It makes me
happy. And this is just at a quick glance. You can see our top videos for the
last 48 hours. So you can see that. And then you come down, you can see the
latest post for the community tab, the engagement, latest comments, and recent
subscribers. Now, this is kind of the desktop overview. If you notice, there is go
to channel analytics, go to video analytics, and that's going to go to the video
that you're seeing in your latest, and this right here is going to your channel
analytics. What I want you to do is mouse on over to the left -hand side and click
on analytics here. Now, here's the thing. YouTube's always updating analytics.
In fact, they just updated everything throughout the whole platform on analytics and
they actually are being more in sync with their mobile app and then also with some
of the other types of things that you can do like shorts and live streams. So it
is now updated. It has changed and I'm going to show you those changes here. And
so right now we are in the analytics section. The first thing that I always look
at is that encouraging note that YouTube gives us. Keep it up, your channel got 182
% more views than usual in the last 28 days. And once again, I look at those green
arrows. Look at that. That's always beautiful to see the green arrows going up and
that were higher than normal. And then you can scroll down, you can see where it
is, and they give you just another graph of where you're at. So you're way above
typical. You can see this is below typical, this is typical, this is above typical,
and you can see that you're well above that. It also shows you your top content
for this period. See where it says this period right here? Well, this period is
basically here in the upper right hand corner. You can select it. So I can select
it to last seven days, and that will change this. And then I can see I want the
last last 90 days and that will change this. You can see all the different things
that are happening. I'm gonna keep it at 28 days for a minute or two. And you can
see that for this period, you can go dive deep into this. And you can see at a
glance what your top performing videos are on your channel that's happening during
the period of selection there. So once again, they give this little snippet. This is
the same one that they have on the home page, and it shows your latest video. And
then real -time analytics. This is the first place that I go after I do a quick
glance. I don't ever scroll down. I just go directly to real -time analytics because
this right here is telling me where all the views are actually coming on the
channel right now as we speak. So that's really important for me. It shows you all
the videos. It shows you how many views you're getting per hour and when. It gives
you the date and time for this as I roll over. This is really important information
as we dig into making data -driven decisions. It shows you the top 25 videos right
now in the last 48 hours that is bringing the views. Now, the great thing is you
can actually hit it for the last 60 minutes, and you can see that it changes. And
YouTube's going to select and prioritize what's bringing in the views now. And this
is something I look at all the time because it helps us know what's going on. And
you can actually do it by a published date too. So I can actually see your latest
video by published date where that's actually happening. The last 48 hours is
important for me for a couple reasons. I want to know which videos are bringing the
most views in the last, you know, two, two days. And so when I'm looking down,
I notice that there's an older video that's bringing the bulk of the views. If you
can see that, we'll want to deep dive into this. I'm going to take a specific
note, but I can see this is an older video, and it's still bringing in views. Now,
when I roll over this, you see, it brings you up here to analytics. We can drill
down to the video section of analytics. So I can get very granular with this
analytics so we can start really analyzing the videos. We're not going to do that
yet. I wanted to show you that you can actually get there by clicking a really
quick button. You don't have to go back to analytics. You can just roll over and
go to analytics here. But you can do that for every video. But what I'm looking at
here is how new are your videos? So this is new. This is newer.
This is older. This is older. This is what I would consider older, older, older,
older. I want to know what's actually happening, how people responding, because as we
get a little bit more granular, we're able to say, okay, maybe it's time in our
content strategy to release another video that is bringing views, or is there a
video piece of content that would coincide with this? Now, we're going to dig deep
into a lot of those things in Section 8, because that's the adjustment phase of the
channel jump start system. We're right now just analyzing, but when we're analyzing,
we need to take note what's actually happening. And we want to be able to say,
okay, here's what's going on. I see this. I have these notes. Maybe that's going to
determine what type of content I'm going to create next. Okay. One great thing is
you can come over here over the channel where it says less Frenches. You can click
on this. You can actually select videos. If I want to see a specific video, and
click any video and I can have real time. Thank you.
I want to see how it's performing. Well, we got three views in the last hour or
whatever. That's great. It's something you can be able to do very, very quickly. So
I'm going to go back to the channel page here. And I just love the axis.
This is actually one of the biggest game changes for me is when I was able to see
things in real time. And we can get a little bit more granular on that. Now, that
being said, I don't really dig deep into it. I just want to kind of see where
we're at and then I kind of kick out because now I have a pretty good
understanding of what's happening in the last 48 hours on the channel. I want to be
able to go up to these tabs up here where it says content, audience, revenue, and
research. Now, some of you might have more items. I'm actually in as a manager.
There might be some things that you can go a little bit more in depth. But this
is where it's changed. They actually added this section right here of content, they
kind of combined it with some other things. And you're able to see all the
different things. If you're doing videos and live streaming, which they're not,
they're not live streaming and they're not doing shorts, that will actually show up
here. So if you actually see shorts, you'll be able to click on the shorts. If you
see live stream, you can see the live streams. But basically, you can see the
different methods here. And you can go a little bit more granular with that as
well. But going back to what I do, I generally will go to audience first.
And the reason why, after real time, I want to see what's actually happening on the
channel. And this gives you returning viewer and unique viewers. And that's something
that we covered in the previous section of how important that is and what we want
to look for. And we want the purple on top because that is kind of our goal.
We'll actually dive a lot deeper in this when we do an analysis. And we have a
section where we go through how I analyze things. But you can see right here these
little icons that has the play buttons are videos of when you released it. And then
two, also it'll show up. You'll be able to see a live stream when it comes up and
also a short. They have different things that they have the live stream icon and
they have the short icon as well. So you know what type of content you released.
You can see a growing audience. These are videos that are bringing in a returning
viewer. But if you look right here, everything's low. So that's telling me to, I
need to analyze that a little bit as well. So that being said, you can see other
channels they watch. You can see the videos that they watch. And both of them have
where you can go a little bit deeper. It goes into three different pages that you
can do this. And this is the last session.
the time of the day and also the day of the week that your viewers are on
YouTube. And so you can say, okay, they're on YouTube. A lot of creators make bad
decisions on this, and we've talked about that a little bit. What I want you to do
is hold off on this on when we get into Section 8, and we'll tell you exactly
what we're analyzing and how we're going to adjust that. We can also see top
geography. We can see at U .S., UK, Canada, France. We can see how many watchtime
views are coming from subscribers. Also, we're seeing the languages, and this is for
more close captioning, and people are using no close captioning, but some people are
using English. That's kind of an indicator for me, you know, that they might not
speak English as their native language. I can see that this is more male versus
female, and And basically 25 to 65 plus is the audience here.
So, I mean, I'm doing this at a quick glance. We also can go over and see unique
viewers and subscribers when they came in. And I always see things like this. And
I'm like, okay, what's going on there? We'll analyze that in a second. So that,
there's a revenue tab. You can see the revenue. It shows you your revenue per
thousand or per mill is what they call it. It has your playback cost per mill,
and that's like the thing that everybody's talking about CPMs. It's how much you're
actually bringing in per thousand videos is the $13 there. You can also see your
monthly estimated revenue. You can see when the revenue is increasing. You see you're
definitely on the increase. And it gives you an ongoing total. You can kind of see
where you're at monthly with this as well. And you see top earner videos. You can
see which videos are bringing in the most money. And that's based off of views, but
also based off of advertising, there might be some videos that the advertiser wants
to put it on that specific video. And that's when the ad cost goes up. You can
see revenue sources. This will actually show up if you do super chat or other
tipping and stuff like that. That will actually show up here as well. And then it
also shows you the ad type that you actually have here and transaction revenue,
which isn't showing anything because you haven't had any transactions. There's
transactional phase on this. There's this new tab called research. You can enter a
search term or you can see viewer searches. This will be really, really important of
really digging into, you know, what they're searching into YouTube. This is a newer
feature, a newer tool. You can go here by geography. You can say, okay, I just
want to know what they're searching in the U .S. And you can notice Italy, even
though that it's about France, they're typing in Italy, it's coming up. But this is
what they're doing is. I think they're probably looking for a trip to Europe when
they're searching for something. And Italy's a part of that as well. And then, two,
you can go content gaps only. So what that is, is like all searches, or we can go
a little bit deeper to content gap. And let me show you right here. There's nothing
right here specifically in the US that's doing it. But there's a function to really
deep dive into specific content on YouTube. That's where it would show up here. But
the size of the channel, you're not seeing any of this. Some of you might, we'll
be able to see it. I don't really dig too deep into this, but we'll talk about
that in the analyzation section. And then also you can save things. So if you want
to save search terms, you can go there. And then you can see, hey, where is this
actually handling? Where it says go more. This is an option where you can go to
Google Trends. You can see that you can see is this trending. Is it staying there?
It pops up into Google Trends. That's where this date is coming at. And you're able
to see that as well. So basically, that is the overview of analytics and I want to
go to this content section because I didn't do it justice as we were going through
but this gives you views impressions click through rate data average view iterations
and as we come down here it shows you key moments we'll we'll do this more in
analysis you can see how viewers found your video browse features suggested video
YouTube search channel so on and so forth so The great thing about it is,
as we're digging into this, this goes into the advanced mode, which we're not going
into, that's the next video that we're going to do. But I want you to really look
at this. So there's one graph that really got me bent, and it was that upside down
triangle. And it was one of the most deceptive things ever. They cut rid of it,
thank goodness, because a lot of creators were actually making pretty bad decisions
based off of that. And so you can see.
challenge you to do is just get comfortable with it, see what's going on. I'm now
really going to help you understand how I analyze.
There's a lot of things to look at. And when we go into advanced mode, there's
even more to look at. I'm going to give you an overview of advanced mode in the
next video. And then after that, we're going to show you my process because I
pretty much don't look at a lot of the features that YouTube gives us data, I
might glance at it at a time, but not through really my analyzation phase. And as
I'm analyzing it, we're only looking at certain things. And I'm going to show you
exactly what we're doing there and how we're actually drawing conclusions of what
works, what doesn't work, and so on. So when we get to Section 8, we know how to
adjust. We know how to adjust our content. We know how to adjust our content
strategy based on what we're analyzing here in the analytics in Section 7.

PT4

Hey, jump starters. We are really excited because we went through analytics. We
learned the basics. And now I'm ready to teach you the advanced mode. This is my
favorite report on YouTube. It can do so much, especially when we actually set it
up to really group things and look for the patterns that we look for in channel
jumpstart. So let's jump over to the computer. All right. I got a smile on my
face. Do you know what that means? I get to go to my favorite report in analytics.
And I'm really excited about this. And I can't wait to show you the overview of
the most powerful report on YouTube. And it really is a way that we can really
define what our content strategy is because we can actually bring things together in
an advanced way. Now, you might be really nervous about advanced when I say the
word advanced. And I'm
upper right hand corner right here, you just go ahead and click that and that will
take you to the advanced mode here. Now, I'm going to show you some other places
that you can do that. Like anywhere that you're seeing some data and it'll see see
more, that actually takes you to that specific section in the advanced mode.
So we can get really granular in sections by jumping into this.
And I love what YouTube's done here. So like right here, your top content for this
period, we can roll down and we can see the top content for this period in the
advanced mode. And it pulls everything right there. So pretty much every place that
you say Seymour will drill down to an advanced mode. I'm not gonna say the advanced
mode because every little function has its own advanced mode. Some are in my
favorite report, and then some are in its own advanced mode. So like that example
would be right here, if you notice on real -time analytics, it doesn't go to
advanced mode, but it does advanced mode in real -time analytics, and we can see
that right here. That's their advanced mode for that. So as we're drilling down, I
want to show you one other advanced mode that isn't in the main advanced mode. And
we'll come back to this in a second, but you see the videos growing your audience.
We see it's low right here. Well, this actually has advanced mode too.
And this is something that we're going to leverage of really understanding baselines
and knowing how our video is performing based off of the date, date range that
we're actually selecting. Okay. So let's go ahead and go up to the right hand side
and click out because what we want to do is to go to my favorite report, which is
advanced mode. And right here, this might overwhelm some of you.
Some of you might be comfortable because you're probably already using this. And
ultimately, my goal is to show you how powerful the report is by showing all the
different features that you can use. Now, word of warning, there's so much features
and there's a lot to really take in. It can feel overwhelming and cumbersome,
but I don't want you to feel that way. I'm actually...
I just want to show you the power of what to do. Now, the cool thing about this
too is as you get an understanding of a basis of advanced mode of what it can do,
that's where we can get really granular on things and really see what's going on.
We can track it and we can see the results of that. That's the analyzation and
also the change, the adjustment where we can adjust our plan moving forward.
Now, I've used this in so many different ways. That's when I can't wait for you to
really comprehend what's actually being given to you here. And you can utilize it on
your channel, on your videos, and then we can get granular in our group coaching
sessions. And we can talk about the why, and I can go a lot deeper in when you're
comfortable for this report. So even if it feels overwhelming, I'll get you
comfortable in the next video of showing you what to focus in on and then we can
get a little bit more granular as we get more advanced in this. Okay, so right
here we actually have right here the section, you can have channels, you can get a
little granular on selecting specific videos or groups or playlists.
It looks like it's taking a little bit of time to pull up the videos that comes
here. We'll come back in a second. You can filter, so you could filter by device
type. Like if I only want to see the results on the TV, we can filter by that,
okay, which is really, really powerful. So it pulls a report in, but it only uses
like the TV views on this. Okay. You can also filter by, let's go ahead and show
you this, ads enabled, audio playback, content type, device type geography,
live on demand, operating system. You don't get post type because that is dealing
with the community tab. It depends.
am hoping that eventually we can actually get a little bit more granular on this.
This is for live streams and on demand. I want to be able to have that be with
shorts too, but I'm still asking for it. Hopefully we can because even here, it
doesn't come up. And I want shorts to be separate so we can get a little bit more
granular without having to really go from there. So that's a request that I've been
putting in. And I don't know why I told you that. I guess this is an overview and
I'm giving you some thoughts that I have of how to improve YouTube. Okay, down
below, you can see the different tabs. So every tab, you're pulling up the top 25
results. Okay, so this one has the top 25 videos. And you can see under this views
by video. You can sort by watchtime, by subscriber, by impressions,
by click -through rate, and more metrics. Look at all these metrics that you can
pull in. We can get really, really granular with this. Like if we want to know
estimated revenue, we can add estimated revenue. We can go way in depth on average
view per viewer. That right there is something that I really focus in on because
that's the heartbeat of your content. That's the heartbeat of your channel. We want
to know and understand that. And then also revenue, you see all the tabs that you
can really be more granular on. And YouTube's giving you all this data. And I think
that it can be overwhelming when you look at it as a whole. But we're going to
look at it in little pieces to put those pieces together for the bigger puzzle of
what is our content strategy. Okay. So coming down, there is another blue plus icon.
You can click on that, that gives you the same tab. So if I want to be able to
add things, check out this. It basically starts adding to that report.
You can see the average view per viewer is two here. We're going to go ahead and
click on this. We can see, hey, we want to see how many subscribers we gained. We
can see that. And we can add every little item that is here.
And it will give us the data that we're able to take a look at it at the glance.
Now, I'm not going too in -depth on this. That's more for the analyzations portion
of how we actually analyze. But I did want to show you that you can do it where
you can get really, really more in -depth very quickly. And YouTube will sort it for
you and give you the data that you need to. And so when we're looking at a video,
here's the top -performing video, had
subscribers that were gained at 17 % of all the subscribers gained within this time
period, which is 28 days. We can see the average view per viewer is 1 .2. That
means they watched 1 .2 videos. That video plus 0 .2. You can see it brought in 145
,000 views and 11 ,000 watch time hours.
And you can see the total subscribers so that there was actually subscribers lost
to, which we can pull that in report. You can see the revenue, the impressions, and
the click -through rate percentage. So you have all this right here at your
fingertips and you can add or take away from it. And one thing I love is I can
even sort right here or we can come back out and sort right here. So you can be
able to sort on both sides there. So that's kind of the overview of the video tab.
So let's go to traffic sources. Now, this right here is where I believe the rubber
meets the road when it comes to where people are watching your content. So you can
see in the last 28 days, suggested videos is number one traffic source. Well, it's
not number one traffic source. It's number one traffic source via watch time hours.
If we click views, we can see that browse feature is. So it's like a close second.
You can get more views, but more watchtimes coming from suggested videos. You can
see search, channel pages, and so on. This is really important for me, because right
here, when we're going through the traffic source, we can see over on this other
side that gives us the click -through rate percentage. We're basically looking at the
views and the click -for -rate percentage for that traffic source. And this is a key
to understanding YouTube. It is. Every different traffic source has its own algorithm,
and the AI is controlling the algorithm and it has different bots and it basically
is looking what we call the hit rate what a hit rate is is when YouTube delivers
something and it and they click on it right so like if they do an impression and
someone clicks on it that's a hit rate even though that's a click -through rate
percentage YouTube views it as a hit rate because if we can increase the hit rate
in that traffic source guess what happens, that's where you're getting more and more
impressions and the more and more impressions is leading to more and more conversions
on it. And that's how you actually scale. And so that's what we're wanting to do.
But we need to know this number of the hit rate or your click -through rate of
your impressions to view ratio. So you can see that right there. And then each
traffic source is there. But you can also see that we get more view duration in a
suggestion for this channel. It's well over a minute and 10 seconds,
and that's pretty high. And so as we get more traffic from suggestion, we know that
there's a higher probability that they're going to stay on the video longer. Okay,
so all this is really good data to do. Now, once again, we have this blue little
icon. Notice that they're crossed out here. Now, YouTube doesn't allow you to really
pull in a lot of this data in certain tabs and you can see right here average
percent viewed that gives us the ability to add that as well and then you can you
can sort by that or we can come back to to views but it's always there so you
have that data point but basically based on where you're at in the report YouTube
will say if it's available or not for you to really get granular with it now that
being said I want to show you this too like when you're here in browse feature We
could see how many views were actually coming from the home page, how many views
were coming from subscription feeds. So we just go ahead and click on this. And
then that will pull in and we can get a little bit more granular. We can see that
the bulk of the views were coming from the homepage. And also the subscription was
only 6 ,000 of the 179 ,000. So you can see where your traffic is even more
granular there. And then also with suggested videos, you can actually see the videos
that are actually suggesting your content. So we can see right here, the bulk of
them should be your videos if we're doing the channel jumpstart system. The bulk of
it should be yours. This is something that I love showing creators that think that
they need to social jack where they go and try to hijack somebody else's content
from getting it to suggest. And it doesn't really work that way. I mean, yeah,
you can get some videos that can go from there. But YouTube's really good at once
you get a little bit of traffic, it's really good at promoting and getting it in
different traffic source. But you can see where it comes from. These are all their
videos right here, and it's not a surprising at all, that that's where it's at. All
of them are pretty much their videos. And so you might see a little bit different
results on your channel, and we'll basically dig deep into that. Now, once again,
you have the ability to add a couple things. But in this, all you can do is add
clip views and premium views. So just like YouTube is going from there. And then,
too, you can go a little bit deeper on some of the stuff where I'm going to go
back to, you know, you can just go down by traffic source. But if you notice that
I'm going to show you here in traffic source again. So this is really important
that in all this you can actually select a secondary metric. So we can do primary
metric, secondary metric, and we can get a lot more in depth where you're doing
both and it brings this up in competition. So you can see, okay, I want to know
how views are performing when it comes to impressions. And so we can get a little
bit more granular in that and you can see how it coordinates. And you can see that
The secondary metric is in green and the primary metric is in purple.
And then you can kind of see the graph of how that's able to go. Now, another
thing is the graph can change. You can do it as a bar chart. I like that because
sometimes you want to see, okay, which one's bringing in the most views per
impression or whatever. But, you know, ultimately, you can also select the date range
here of, you know, when you see this. Now, I know that Some of you might feel
overwhelmed and don't feel that way. I'm going to show you exactly step by step in
the next video, exactly what you're going to do to analyze it. And it's going to
be really, really comprehensive. So that being said, we showed the primary metric,
the secondary metric. All you got to do is to unclick none when you go there.
Also, the next tab is geography. And once again, you're pulling in. You have more
data points that you can add to this, and then also you can drill down. See that?
We can literally drill down, like if we want the U .S., we can see California,
Florida, Texas, New York. That gives us a lot of data that we need to know. And
once again, you know, all this is really, really super powerful when it comes to
really getting viewer ages, gender. We can even see the date, like the date when
the traffic came in. It says your most viewed days. We can get granular too on the
days that brought in more average view per viewer, so there's certain days that are
higher. And that's what we're trying to understand is, you know, because of views,
did it translate into them binge watching? That gives us some indicators there. Also,
there's a tab called Revenue Source, and it can show you the revenue. You can drill
down and get really granular on where your revenue is coming from. You can see all
that, and it breaks it down. I want to show you why we're here. Another way,
this is, this is one tab when we talk about ad type, I export. And I want to
show you where that's at. So when you get something, all this in advanced board,
you can export anything into a sheet. So if you see right up here, upper right end
corner, you see export current view. And YouTube gives you the ability to add it to
a Google sheet or a CSV, comma, separated value that you can bring into whatever.
And I use this a lot for this one because I'm like, hey, I need this report for
X, Y, or Z. And, you know, at any time in any of these settings, I can just hit
export right here, which is really, really cool. And then, too, you can use it as
a data input into some reporting software or stuff like that. Okay? So once again,
you can get more granular if you need to. Now, right here where it says more, look
at all the other things that we can do. Subscription source, content type, playlist,
device type, transaction type, YouTube product, video type, playback location, operating
system, video information language, translation, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Like, we can get very, very in depth on each of these things, and it's going to
give us a lot better understanding of what's actually happening. And you can just
keep on adding those there. Now, that's kind of like the overview itself of this
report, but I wanna show you this other feature right here where it says compare
to. This is where I love it because for us, if we're only looking at data and we
don't have anything to compare it to, guess what? That's a big mistake. We need to
compare it with something so we can analyze it. Why did this do this and why is
this doing that. That's the analyzation process that we're trying to go through. So
right here we have compare to. This is where you can analyze. And if we're not
comparing anything, then we're just looking at the data and we don't really know how
to fix it because we need to compare it to something. This gives the ability to
compare a lot deeper. So when you see this period over period, year to over year,
first 48 hours, we can get very granular on the comparisons. And then Also, we can
compare it against a video. So if we want to go video versus video, I'll show you
how to do that. So if I wanna compare this video versus another video, all we
gotta do is come over here and click on this. And we can go ahead and compare it
against that video. So we can see from a granularity process of what's actually
happening. So like this one, and I'll come back to notice this one, like 70 % of
these views were coming from browse feature versus 73 % were coming from browse
feature. And this one was for search. Search is the number two. On this one, the
number two is YouTube features. And so we can get a lot more granular on it. And
this is like my favorite tool because we can actually compare it with things that
really makes sense. Now, the next one is groups. I'm going to show you exactly what
to do this in the next video of how to group things and I'll have you group it
together, which is really important. I want you to do that as well. Ultimately, we
can compare group against group, and I'll show you that in the next video as well.
This is pretty much it for the advanced mode. I gave you the overview. We're going
to start really personalizing it for you and your channel, and then ultimately I'm
going to show you exactly what you need to look at, what you need to avoid, how
to process it, and that's coming up of really knowing how to analyze your channel.

PT5

Okay, jump starters, we are ready to jump right in and talk about buckets. We're
going to talk about playlists and we're going to actually bring them in analytics to
give us a lot more data to help us make good data -driven decisions in our content
strategy. Now, before we do, I want to talk about the two objectives of YouTube,
and I know that we've covered this a lot throughout channel jumpstart, but it's
really important that you actually grasp this concept so that we know exactly what
we're looking at. Now, YouTube has two main objectives. One is to predict what the
viewer wants to watch. The second is to keep them on the platform longer. And
basically, we're going to cover keeping them on the platform longer and also
predicting what they want to watch. Now we're going to kind of reverse that. So
when you're actually watching a video, YouTube's trying to make the best assumption
for what you want to watch next. Now, it has the next up video, and then it has
all the videos down the right -hand column on the desktop or beneath the video
within mobile. And what YouTube's doing is giving you options. Some of them are what
they call rabbit hole options, which is going deeper and deeper and deeper down the
rabbit hole. Or they're giving you, say, hey, you like this creator and here's some
other variations that people like this video, but it's also they like this other
video from the same creator that you're actually currently watching. And so as you
have a deep library, YouTube's going to recommend that as well. And then it's going
to do non -rabbit hole video, something that's completely non -related to what you're
watching, but it's related to the viewers. So whatever the viewer is watching in
their history over the period of time, YouTube's going to make a suggestion on some
of those videos from there. That's basically the option that they're actually getting.
Now, where buckets really deep dive into it is buckets are rabbit holes. Okay,
so when we're doing a bucket, we're using the same type of meta -information. It's
the same type of viewing experience in the specific video. And basically, it crosses
all the things that YouTube's looking at for a rabbit hole video. So we have a
high likelihood that if they're watching this video, there's a high likelihood that
there's going to be a video or two or even three that are in the bucket that are
going to show up in that suggested video area, whether it's on the side on desktop
or below the video. And that's what we're trying to do, because as one video takes
off and receives momentum, guess what happens to the other videos in the bucket?
They actually get suggested because as one's going, it's going to suggest other
traffic. And if you've done the channel jumpstart way, where you're actually doing a
great title and thumbnail and we're correlating it in buckets, then that is like
kind of intertwined, especially if you have an active audience because then it's
looking at the audience data too, which really, really ties it in. And I can tell
you, if you get this system down and you get a lot of viewer loyalty, then you're
actually going to get a ton more views because YouTube really looks at that viewer
data just says, hey, there's a higher probability when they watch this video that
they watch this one next. And it kind of solidifies your ranking locations on
suggestion. And so that's a really, really awesome thing. And it's something that I
can't wait for you to do. And this video is to help you set up your buckets using
the advanced mode in analytics. And I'm going to take you step by step through it
and then making sure that you have the assignment to do this because this is
something that we're going to be doing consistently when we're analyzing our channel.
So let's jump over to the computer. All right, we are here at the computer ready
to deep dive into analytics and really put your buckets into groups so we can
analyze that properly. Now, to jump right in, we need to go to advanced mode. You
can come up to the upper right hand corner. This is our favorite report. And once
we're here, you're able to see this screen. And we're going to come to the compare
to up of the upper right hand corner Click on that and then come over to groups.
You should see this if you have no groups formed. If you have a few groups formed,
then congratulations. You're one step ahead. So if you don't have a group, all you
got to do is click this blue button here, create a group. And basically what we're
going to do, this is on Legit Tim's channel, we're going to actually do a couple
groups. And so we need to give it a name. We'll actually do the first bucket,
which is guess the. And this is where he kind of does kind of some content where
they guess. And we're
going to select some of his videos that are the guest videos.
We'll do 10 of them and hit save so by doing that basically it uh brings it into
a group puts them all together and the great thing about it is you can add uh by
uh rolling over to this and then hitting the pencil icon and you can keep on
adding so if i want to add more i can i can add more and there's a couple ways
to do it i kind of went very quickly um you can you can just click it right here
or you can click this tab where you could put the video id so that's the video i
groups for legit Tim. So let's go ahead and do another group. And I'm going to use
the verses. And we'll do verses again. He has a couple of verses videos.
And I want to be able to make sure that we're hitting all these.
Get a couple of these going.
Okay.
So let's just make sure I have all these. Yep, that's a versus one,
two.
Okay, so we'll go ahead and hit save on that. So we now have two buckets versus
versus Gesta. We're going to do another one, create another group, and you can
create as many groups as you need to.
This other one, he went, so he does one where he goes to some place. And let me
go ahead and hit those. And this is one of his newer buckets using the channel
jumpstart system. Really excited about this. And hit save.
And let's go do another group. He's actually done quite have been on YouTube so
we're able to group this together and we'll do wearing if I can type
and we'll do wearing okay
hit
some of these here
um Some
of these are not titled the same way. I mean, this has done a lot prior than he's
done Channel Jumpstart, but we'll definitely grab a couple of those.
So we've got 17 of those, which is good. So we're getting some buckets here. We're
going to do Another one. This will be the last one I do here. I know he has
others, but I'll do I bought so that we can actually look at the data the way
that we need to. So let's go ahead and take
away that I sold because it's not I bought.
Okay, so we actually did this for Tim. Basically, we're able to create all these
groups around his buckets. Now, I know that he has more buckets than we've actually
created, and we'll actually do that here offline. But I wanted to show you exactly
how to actually make groups on advanced mode. Now, here's your assignment. This is
really important. Some of you have zero videos. So this is not going to be an
assignment for you. but those that have videos, I want you to create a group. Now,
what groups do we want to create right now? Well, the first group that I want you
to create is around your first bucket. So everyone should have one bucket. And if
you have zero videos, you can't do it because you actually have to add a video for
you to actually create a group, okay? And so basically, I want you to create one
group around your bucket. Now, some of you have been on YouTube for a while and
some of you have a lot more buckets that you're actually utilizing right now, what
I want you to do is also create a group around each individual bucket. So if you
have five buckets, I want to see five groups. If you have six buckets, I want to
see six groups. The more work that you do here, you can always add as you add new
videos to that specific bucket. And that's going to give us the data that we're
actually looking for. So that's your assignment is to actually create a group around
your bucket. And if you have multiple, I want to see multiple there. Okay. Now, I
know earlier on that I said that we're going to actually talk about playlists, and
playlists are really powerful for consumption. And ultimately, we're going to be
creating playlists around each bucket. So for extra credit, if you want to create a
playlist on the public side of your YouTube channel that is in relation to your
bucket, You can do that too. We're going to really deep dive into how to leverage
that the right way when we're actually really using that as a target video. So that
is your assignment for this video. Make sure that you do this because we're going
to start really breaking this down and analyzing it away. And we actually need this
data in so we can make really good data -driven decisions.

PT6

Hey, jump starters. We're ready to jump right in and really deep dive into
analytics. And this is something that I want you to do at the beginning of the
month and also at the middle of the month. This is where we're going to get really
granular of what's going on with our channel and also the videos. Now, one of the
things that you're going to want to do is really get this process down. It's not
complicated. I know it might feel that way when we're seeing all the different
features and so on. I'm going to show you what to do, what to look at, and what
to pretty much avoid until we actually have our first initial assessment for this
specific things that are happening on our channel and then also the individual
videos. So this is where we're going to do it. Now, I want you to get in that
pattern of doing it this way because this is the pattern that we will actually
explain to how to go deeper on things. And once you have this down, then you're
like, oh, okay, it makes sense now of what Daryl is saying over here because I
understand that foundational element of how we're actually analyzing our channel, how
we're actually analyzing each individual videos, and how we're actually bringing the
data together to analyze. So when we get to section 8 of how to adjust, that will
actually help us adjust in the proper way that we can see, did it work? Did
adjusting that work as we put the new plan and execute on that content? So I'm
really excited and what I want you to do is buckle up because we're going to
really get in and check out your channel and videos right now. Okay, we are here
at the computer. We're ready to deep dive and get a really good analysis of what's
going on on our channel and then really looking at very specific videos. And what
we're trying to do is gauge what we do next based off of what's actually happening
on our channel. And we want to really pull in a really good analysis. Now, I want
you to go through this. When you really get it down, it's going to only take you
about 20 minutes to do. So it's not that much time, but it's going to take a
little bit more as you get comfortable of looking and assessing. Now, I can do it
in a lot less time than in 20 minutes, but that's like what I want you to just
get comfortable about 20, 30 minutes. When you analyze it, I want you to really
deep dive. Now, there have been jump starters that do it more than twice a month.
I'm just encouraging you to do it twice a month when you get comfortable with it
and we get a little bit more advanced. Then you could do it as frequent as you
need to, to do a lot of processing from recon and research of really understanding
what's happening in your data and really adjusting your content plan. But all content
plans that I do, I usually do it every two weeks. And so there's no need to go
into it every day and really lose track of really getting some analysis paralysis or
spending too much time in your analytics where you should actually apply it to your
videos. So that's really, really important. Let's kind of jump right in and go
through that process. Now, we are here on a channel for one of our jump starters,
legit Tim, he has good news, he's getting more YouTube views from YouTube
recommendation, which is, that's what we want. That's what jump starters, we love to
hear. It's like music to our ears. We have green arrows all the way up. We love
that. We love seeing this happen. So Tim, it's great. Your channel is healthy. Now,
what we're going to do is go through the process of analyzation. So I did a quick
glance here. First thing I'm going to do is go into real -time analytics, because
that is telling us where the views are coming from. We can see that he just barely
released a video. I bought the world's cheapest Amazon returns. It seems like it's
performing quite well. It's bringing in some views here. And then I'm looking at all
this content. This one's a little bit older. So this one's in 2021. All these
others are June, March, May, April, May. I'm looking for older content,
guess the name, and I'll buy the shoe for you. Okay, we see that. And, you know,
we have, I want to sort here by last 60 minutes. So seeing what the hour, see if
any of those changes. And we see a couple of these. This is all the stuff that I
want to really understand. Now, what I'm doing with this information is knowing one
specific thing. Is it something that's going to always be here? And if it is,
then YouTube's viewing this as data. So I want to go to this one specifically. And
this is how I start drilling down on this video. Okay. So this one was December
22nd. Why is this video performing? And it continues to perform in real -time
analytics. It's like in the top 25 videos. And in that, even with the last two
days, it's still one of the top videos. So what I want to do is drill deeper, and
we come right here to analytics. Now, all I'm looking at is traffic. Traffic
sources, traffic sources, traffic sources, traffic sources. That's what I care about.
And the reason why we want to do deeper is because we can get the report here to
see exactly where those views are coming from. And we can see that it's coming from
YouTube suggesting that video. It's 64 % of the views that he got in the last 48
hours and then also 27 % on the homepage and you have other features and so on. So
that's telling me that YouTube really likes this video as a suggestion. So when when
a video is popping off, we can go a lot more granular into this. And so I'm going
to go a little bit more granular even though that we're in the advanced mode. You
know, that's going to go granular a little bit deeper because I'm wondering which
videos are promoting it. So we can get in here where we go, I'm sorry, I'm going
a little too fast for you, but traffic source and then suggested videos. I want to
see that. And we can see that this one is like, I won every sneaker in Keymaster.
It's done on March 16th. That's bringing the bulk of the views. And you can see
some other videos that are there as well. Now, this being said, when we come to
this one, we can watch it. You'll see that it's from his channel, and that's one
thing I want all of you to realize that YouTube's looking for your content first
before it goes out to other channels to suggest. You have a higher probability.
That's why the bucket system works, and we can see that I want every sneaker is
literally bringing traffic to this, but all these are as well. Now, that being said,
we're going to come back to this, and I'm going to go back to the real -time
analytics. Now that we're back here in real -time analytics, I'm going to just do
that for all the different videos, because what I'm trying to do is understand where
the traffic is, so we can come to this one right here. I want to know, once
again, let's go to analytics, and we're going to see where that traffic's coming
from. Once again, this is suggested videos. And so that's really important, but you
notice that it's not coming from the home page. It's like suggested videos. So that
right there gives us a good understanding of what's happening here on our channel.
And this is basically the top 25 videos. And what I'm trying to do is really
understanding all the older videos and where the traffic's coming from. Now, I'm not
going to act upon that news now, but I need to have that in my back pocket for
when I actually do content strategy because it might be time to redo another video
in that bucket, you know, and that's something that we need to analyze because
that's the analysis portion here now. I can tell you right now it's continue to get
views. And if we release something in the bucket, I mean, we can see right now it
is in December. So it's had a period of time, but it's still bringing views. Well,
maybe it is time to do that bucket. And I would say, yes, It'd be, that would be
one of the videos that I would consider actually releasing when we actually do our
new content. Okay, that being said, we have another one, guess the price and I'll
buy you the shoe. And you can see, this is September 22nd, 2019. I really like
this one, guess the price and I'll buy the shoe. And you see the price is $5 ,000
and you can see that he's buying the shoe. And so this is really cool. I love the
idea, the concept of the video. And then two, this is something I'd probably
consider as well. Once again, I want to see where the traffic's actually coming
from. And that's where we get a little bit more granular here. And you can see
suggested videos. So YouTube is recommending that. That's something that we would want
to put on our list of videos that we might want to do. Now, Tim might not want
to continue to make content like that. And that's okay. But that's the assumption
that we're making is Here's the traffic and here's ideas to really maximize the
momentum that's actually happening on our channel. That's what we're trying to do. So
that's what we do here in this report. And then two, once again, like I showed you
in the overview, you can get granular on every video and see each video where this
is at. We can actually go back into their own real time and you can see in real
time where videos as. So, like, that's really important. That's something that you
should all consider when you, uh, when you really break this down in real time is,
is seeing what's happening right now on the channel. Now, I'm going to click out of
that, go back to analytics. We went through real time analytics. That's something
that I look at because that's kind of really the pulse of what's happening right
now in our YouTube channel. And we got a little granular with videos. And I like
to look for anomalies. I would like to see, hey, what's actually popping right now?
Where's the traffic actually coming from for that specific video? Now, we can
literally pull this in in more of a granular view for traffic sources. But we don't
do that yet. What we do is go to audience. Now, audience is a really good
indicator because what I'm trying to do is make an assessment of basically, you
know, where the traffic's coming from. We show the videos that's getting the views
now, and I want to know who's actually watching that. That's where our investigated
process with the Kipling method is in effect, right? So we're coming into it. Now,
this report tells me so much, and I explained it in another video, but I need to
go again. When purple is above blue, that means there's actually a loyalty that's
coming from your subscribers. So Tim actually has a more loyal audience and it kind
of varies. You know what I'm saying? I look at the higher the purple is over the
blue, the better, but blue needs to go up like this right here where it gets
really close to purple because that's bringing new viewers in or it needs to bust
past purple at different times to bring in new audiences. So that's telling me that
I need to do more videos that we can actually look at that will bring in a new
viewer. And that will come back down to a couple things that will hold in our back
pocket. But we just want to see, hey, where we're at with the channel, what do we
need to do? Now, this next one is videos growing your audience. Now, I really,
really love this. And the reason why is because when there's a new viewer, if you
remember the chart that we actually have is when they use the click through rate
and we get a new viewer, we have the opportunity to churn them, which means they
watch just one video or get them watch another video, which is making them an
active viewer. That's what we want to do. We want to make them an active viewer.
And this is telling you new viewers who returns. So these are the returning viewers.
These are the active viewers that are coming in. And it literally will show you
which videos have a high opportunity for a return. Now, you can see that this one's
grayed out. It needs enough data to collect. But once it has enough data, it's
going to do it. But for right now, it's very high. So the reason why it's very
high, it's a new video. And YouTube, basically from their perspective, Any new video
has the highest opportunity to get a returning viewer because it's on the home page.
And the homepage is where the bulk of the views come from for new viewers in their
viewing experience on the homepage. And so that's something that YouTube knows, like,
hey, if they're active with your channel, they just watch the video. When they go
to their homepage, they're going to have a high likelihood of seeing your latest
release on the front page. And that's really cool. And then, too,
you can see very in depth of what's actually happening here with other video
content. So you can say, oh, relationship -wise with their content, if I do this
type of video that I want a sneaker at Keymasters, the one this sneaker bucket
might be something you want to do because returning viewers are actually watching
that. And that's where we get him to watch video after video, after video, after
video. Also, from this data, It tells me a little bit of data of where people are
watching content. So it shows your audience where they're watching on YouTube. Stay
focused, Frank, Jesser, which is really cool. He's another jump starter here, too. We
see House of Brick. And then right here we can toggle. And I just want to see
things that kind of help me see what's going on. One thing I'm looking for is
people like Nolan here. He has 1 .5 ,000 subscribers. That is a note. Like, you
know, this channel has like 4 million. This is 1 .5. But is that someone that's
coming up? I want to keep an eye on it. There's something happening here. It's most
likely a video that's popping off. And guess what we do? We put that in the back
of our mind of, hey, that's a video that's popping off. This is our recon and
research because all we're trying to do is analyze what we're going to create. So
let's go ahead and dig a little bit deeper here. So as we come into this,
these are the other videos that your audience watched in the last seven days. And
I'm seeing, okay, phase rug. It gives me an idea of other channels that we can do
a little recon on that you know that your audience is loving. You can see Jesser's
video right here. He's blown up right now because of all the stuff that's going on.
And ultimately, I'm not seeing that guy. At least I don't see him. So I'll want to
actually come over here and open it up because I'm very curious when this happens,
okay? I really, really am. I want to see what's going on here. And look at that.
Holy cow. Look at this. The shoe review got 159 ,000 after one month.
Your height is your shoe. I'm very interested in that. That could be an idea to go
from there. But you look at these two things that are here. Shorter form videos,
it's only 34 view or 34 seconds on it, 22 seconds. I can pretty much tell you
what's going on here. And it's something that you might want to look at a little
bit deeper, but they're just testing out titles and thumbnails at times to see if
we can get a click. And then they might be using it on a different channel. So
this might be a channel that is being used to get the click through rate and get
that stuff down so they can put it on another channel eventually. I've seen that
time and time again before. Also, it might be they're trying to game the system. I
notice it's shorter form video, so they're probably trying to get that hook. They
might be testing that as well, or they're trying to game the short algorithm. I'm
going to show you that in an advance call because they're using shorts, but they're
not using it in the short shelf, but anyway, they're getting the views there. So
that's something I'm looking at. It is coming up, but I'm not seeing that. And I
think it's coming from that older video that you're seeing here a month ago, because
this is for the last 28 days, and this is only the last seven days. So the seven
days, traffic's not happening there, but you're able to see that. Now, coming down
here, we can see that we have really good weekend viewership. So that tells me
that, hey, they're probably in school. However, this is for the last 28 days. When
coming into the summer, this will change. It'll be, it'll look like this the whole
time across the week, and not just selective days. It'll be a lot more in depth.
Maybe, you know, during the weekend, it's something we need to look at. Also, we're
looking at people that are the loyalty factor. We saw that, hey, people are coming,
but I'm looking at here at the notifications. We have 13%. Now, I'm not as
committed to the notification tab. I just want people to come and find my videos.
This helps people to get jumpstart, you know, that momentum. But ultimately, I wanted
it on that homepage because that's the fastest way that you could possibly get
views. I look here to top geography US. We can drill down a little bit,
and I'm going to come down here to see where those views are coming from,
California, Texas, Florida, New York. No surprise there. That's the biggest areas of
consumers of YouTube in the world, and you can see that as well. So coming here,
non -subscribed is 82%. Now, remember, YouTube is looking for an active year.
They don't really care about subscribers, but I like subscribers because it's a
little bit more of a commitment, but YouTube only cares about, if you come back up
here, they care about the returning viewer, right? That's what they want, that active
viewer. And right now, you have a very low subscribe to non -subscribe ratio.
This could be for a couple reasons. Your channel could be older, that you had a
lot of subscribers that have now moved on. You could have shift from your content,
you know, that's something from there. But I basically am looking for a very loyal
audience that wants to subscribe to me. So for here, I would like to have at least
60 % of my subscribers watching my content and 40 % that are non -subscribers.
That's a really good mix. Now, some channels don't have a face. They don't have to
connect to someone. It's more about the content. So that could be lower here. But
Tim, your stuff is definitely there. So I want to be able to increase that loyalty
where they feel invested into your content that they hit that subscribe button,
but they're also watching actively. And so that's something I want to just kind of
put back on as we're gathering data here. We also look at you have 82 % male
versus female. Really, you have Gen Z, older Gen Z, And then you also have some
millennials. And then you have this right here. This is an indicator. It's like 20%.
And you're like, wait, what's going on? You know, is it resonating with the older
audience? It could be. But my guess is it's basically people that are using their
moms and dad's account. And that's why you have, when we break it down the female,
that's why I think the 16 % is coming from mom's account. You know, I see some
females watching it, but usually shoe nerds and things around the shoe world are
more male, especially when you're showing male shoes. Okay. So that being said,
that's something that we break down. And ultimately, I'm just trying to gauge what's
going on with the channel. And, you know, just doing this gives me a glance and
I'm writing these things down so that I know exactly what I need to course correct.
And I'm going to take all this information and course correct that, okay? So let's
come back to the overview. We've now done real time, we've done audience.
So we have a really good in -depth understanding. Now we need to go a little bit
more granular on this tab right here on content. Now, this content is a new tab
for everyone on YouTube. And you can see that You have videos, we have lives,
and we have posts. And then two, if you're doing shorts, it's going to show up
here. I'm not a big fan of shorts. I'll put it out there right now. Not a big
fan at all. But this is something that I'm really worried about in the sense of
how you look at things. And so right now, I want you to, when you're analyzing
videos, you analyze videos. If you're analyzing live streams, you analyze live
streams. Okay. We want to separate right here. So I'm really grateful that YouTube's
put it in here, but don't look at everything as the same type of content because
it's not. Okay? So YouTube has given us that aspect. I don't click all.
And I don't click all for a couple reasons because I don't like to have all the
data like this. And then this is the devil right here, this upside down triangle.
It's only in, hey, this is how your channel's doing overall. And I don't care
because we want to be a really granular. So I don't know.
misleading. But anyways, I don't like to look at as all only to do a quick glance
to see, hey, is our YouTube channel being recommended? We're under that 75 %
recommendation range, which is the average. I want to be higher. But you can see,
okay, this is where we're at. Okay, now what I want to do is come back to video.
And the reason why we're coming to video is because of this factor right here. So
we have videos. It shows you the green arrow here. We see our impressions. We see
our click -through rate, which I don't look at the click -through rate here. I want
to go a little bit more granular here in a second. We see our average view
duration, everything that we need real quick. Now, here is interesting,
and we can go very specifically into each specific video, but I don't want to do
that yet. What I'm trying to do is look and gather things that I'm taking and
making notes for so I know how to really drill down. And so these are key moments.
I love this key moment section because it basically goes over the last 365 days.
And we can see, oh, 84 % of the people watching this video stayed after 30 seconds.
So that hook was really, really important. I can see this one was really important
to that hook. And you can see some commonalities. And then you can also see the
stuff that was below, So,
that, hey, actually worked, we need to write those down of, oh, let's try this
again. That's when we actually do the analysis portion of, well,
we're doing the analysis portion here now, but I'm saying we do the adjustment
portion of we're taking our analysis and say, hey, let's try these things on this
video. And then we're looking for very, very specific, granular things that's actually
happening here. Now, as we coming down, how the viewer found you, once again, you're
seeing the traffic sources. We care about that. You can either hit the tab on
search and it gives you a little bit more granularity there and you can see the
top videos there as well. So ultimately you can do it for live streams, you can do
it for videos, you can do it for shorts. That's the content tab and I actually
really like it a lot. Like that's one of my favorite new additions because it's
really like mobile and they're trying to meld the mobile world with the desktop.
So it's the same experience outside of advanced mode. There's just no way that they
can ever do that on mobile. It's just way too complicated. Okay, so that being
said, that gives me a lot of little things that I'm looking at very specifically of
the help of the channel. I'm going in depth on that in the sense of what's
working, in the sense of what's happening right now, who the audience is,
and what they're watching, when they're watching, all those little details. And now
we come to how we break down a video. And this is something I want you to do on
every video release. So at the beginning of the month, middle of the month, if you
release three videos a week, that means you have to do this process six times for
your videos. And the reason why you want to do that is to really have a good
understanding of what's going on so that you can be a better content creator because
We're going to analyze every video, and this is how you do it. So I can't analyze
this video because it's too new. You has to have at least 48 hours on it.
And so I'm going to come to this one, and I'm basically going to go over here and
scroll down to this analytics, and I'm going to click on it. This gives me the
data that we need, and I'm looking very quickly at this analysis so that we can
see it took off, And then it's just kind of flatlined right here. So probably
really, really, really good click -through rate. But YouTube's seeing, you know,
maybe this is not the best video. And so we need to really do that. And we can
see that the bulk of the traffic is coming from Browse Feature, which is homepage,
which makes sense because it's a newer video. I do not see, if you look at last
48 hours, suggested videos percent. Let's go to this if it jumps up.
It does jump up to 18. So, yeah, YouTube is still performing this more on the
homepage and it's not hitting that suggested traffic. So that's all good news to
know because we know how to course correct based off of this information. So coming
back down, this gives you a more granular view of where your views are coming from
and the percentage of it comes from it. And then it gives you these top moments,
once again, for this specific video. So for the intro, this is really important, is
when we look at the intro, and we come to the first 30 seconds, so I can roll
over here, we're about 80%, 81 % of the people stayed there.
So like right now, but it continued to still drop, and it went to about a minute,
and then it went again to about three minutes and then it dropped down. So it went
down below typical. And some of you might freak out about this because you're like,
hey, wait, this doesn't make sense because my video's popping off and it's below
typical. Well, it could be typical for your average view duration, but it might not
be typical for the impressions and the views. Because if the impressions and views
go out, it's going to a broader audience and it won't be typical. So all I'm
looking for is patterns of when people drop off. So right here, we can see how
many people stayed on for the first 10 seconds? Well, almost, it was 11%.
Right. So what if we got that to five? You know, what are we doing here? And then
two, how long did it come into it? So this is where I like to go a little bit
deeper into this. And I want to stay in this mode here first, but we'll actually
go deeper into it because right now for the intro I can play it
okay so I like that intro these are the most expensive shoes in the world okay so
I I don't know if you notice this but the text came up at the bottom of it so
one of the things that I would want to try is okay that's at the bottom What if
we just did one thing in the first five seconds? So most channels that I've seen
and I've worked with, they'll actually do the text right in the middle, even over
the top of the video itself, and the text is hitting just because it's like,
oh, my gosh, and it comes in, and there's a lot of momentum and build up with the
sound. So that would be something I want to consider to try. And I want to play
this out a little bit and see why, you know, people are dropping off.
So I also noticed that the text stopped. I would like to see the text go probably
for the first, you know, when you're setting up the videos because you're reinforcing
your title and thumbnail. I probably want the text to be right there going across
that whole thing.
on since they were made 10 years ago. Now, how do they feel? I feel legit.
Mike. I feel legit.
Love it. So, look, like, we're 18 seconds in, 85%. So I'm wondering in that first
20 seconds, could you actually, you know, really try that one little tip where
you're going in this is what's going through my mind and having text pop up but
have it be more center be a little bit bigger and then and you're doing your stuff
and I think you can still keep everything else but that's something I'd want to try
on this type of video right now here's another thing that I notice is you're
starting the clock right here and you're going to wear them for 50 hours straight
And let's go ahead and play. Yeah,
I like that. It's there. It's there. However, I would really speed that up.
I know you're using voiceover to set up the thing, but it's like really speed it
up. And then we come to right here and there's a huge drop and I want to know
what's going on here. Because this, like this is pretty big when you see that
because, you know, here we're just losing it, but we lost a whole bunch right here.
So I want to see what's going on there. I don't see any creases. I don't see need
dirt on them. Bottom looks okay still. I think we're good. I think we're good.
Three miles to go. I had it. Okay. So that tells me you might want to tighten it
up there because here they're doing, hey, we're checking this after mile three or
whatever. And they're like, oh, he's running again. You're checking it. Okay, I get
it. But we're like one minute into the video. And I know that it's part of your
day, but I can honestly say the first minute of the videos you're most important.
And so I'm like, okay, what do we need to do? Now, even at the one minute mark,
you know, we're at 65%. So, you know, you lost 35 % of your video,
video viewers. And my thing is, is if you could have kept 10 % more,
this would have been a banger video. Like, like people, they're more tolerant after
that minute mark. But before, they just bounced very fast. So that is something that
I would probably put as something to adjust to and really look at that. It's like
maybe the next video in the series that you're really, really tightening up that
even more. And you're spending more time on that first hour. That's all the stuff
that I'm looking at. Another thing right here, let's kind of go from here.
And I can't shower. That's what I like to do right now. No,
no, no, no, no.
They're already wet.
That they don't ruin with water damage. Please don't run water damage. Just they
want. We just hot. And I'm kind of thinking. So I get what you're doing here,
and I understand kind of the progression of it, and it doesn't, I don't think they
really care if you ruin or not. I think you do it at the very end, and I know
that you're kind of creating that story that's there. I think there's a missed
opportunity here, and I want to kind of explain,
you know, challenge would be how do I actually take a shower with my shoes on. And
so, and I know this is, this is something that we're doing retroactively,
But I want you to start thinking about this as you're going into your content would
be right here. We see a drop. What if you would actually just put baggies?
Like you got trash bags and you put them on and you literally got duct tape and
went around your leg. That's actually pretty freaking interesting. You know what I'm
saying? And what I'm saying is these ideas will come to you as you're analyzing
this. And I'm just thinking right here, oh, I could have done this, this, and this.
I want to write those things down because that's not the only time that you'll use
it. That might be, oh, this is a great way to reengage it. I can see it
stretching and ripping and, you know, wrapping and, you know, wrapping and all that
other stuff. And it does break it up where you're like, hey, no, I've got a super
protect. These are $30 ,000 shoes. And so ultimately, it's just an idea,
but that's where ideas will come from after the fact, and that's what we will write
down on kind of our idea chart. And I want you to kind of keep notes of all
these ideas and write them down or put them in a Google Doc because those ideas
can be utilized in other videos, maybe not this one, because you're not doing this
video again. If you do the video again, you could use some of those things, and I
want you to remember those. And by the time that you're probably shooting it, you're
probably going to forget. So the analyzation portion of it, you are basically leaving
notes on cool, cool things that you can do in the videos just as much as you're
doing notes on new video ideas. Okay, got that? Okay, coming, coming to it.
And
also, try to sleep in these sweats and my legs are so sweet. Okay,
This is where I really look at, once again, you can see that we have drop -off
point, and it's when you give an analysis of each thing, analysis, analysis, analysis
right here. And I'm gonna see, is this a pattern that actually happens? Well, let's
find out.
for the entire 50 hours. Right. Can I ready for increasing because it's like...
Yeah, it could be, but like this is kind of where it starts flattening out, and it
flattens out right here. But ultimately, I want you to go through each one of these
things. Now, these are the intros, then it comes from the top moment, and then
YouTube will let us know, hey, nice work, this moment right here, and I didn't even
need to click on it, but this is when they kind of stabilized, right? I like to
go into the advanced mode of this and go a little bit deeper. And this isn't as
dramatic, so you don't see the drop -offs as dramatic as the other. But I come in
for this toggle right here. So right now it's audience retention. I can go to
relative audience retention. And this tells me, based on the size of the video, the
niche of the in my above average and my own current videos in my above average
average or below average so you can see we're both average and below average for
almost a full two minutes okay right here um and that's probably where i would
focus in on so you're going to focus in on the first minute and then right around
the the two minute two minute 52nd mark um you need to be able to do that that.
Now, I don't know if this is actually for all your videos, but for right here, if
we could be above average of the whole thing, I'm here to tell you that YouTube
would promote the heck out of this video. Okay. And so that's what we need to look
at. And basically, we do this of really understanding the viewer,
and we come in a little bit deeper too.
Notice that there's actually more subscribers watching this video. That's a really
good sign. Okay. That also talks about YouTube was promoting it really good.
And then two, you know, your suggested video traffic probably wasn't as I coming in
here. Everything else looks pretty much identical to what we're doing in the sense
of our audience itself and what we watched based off that first analysis of the
channel. We see returning viewers really high. This isn't necessarily bringing a lot
of new viewers in. So that's something to keep in mind that, hey, this is really
good for your loyal people, but maybe this is something we need to track. Maybe it
will come above there. I don't know. It'll be interesting to see because right now,
you know, we don't have a really strong suggested video, and that's where you're
going to get a lot of new viewers. And then, too, you know, I'm not seeing it on
the other traffic sources that would bring that in. So thus, this is kind of
tapping out. But it could surprise this at 1421.
And I like to be in the high 90s. That's not always possible. So like anything,
you know, in the 90s, 80s is really good. But, yeah, that's what we're doing.
And it shows you where the traffic's coming from. We get a little granular on that.
And it also shows you the engagement, which we talked about. This is more for
audience retention and likes and dislikes. I don't really dig into this too much
because we already did the key moments, you know, but this is more for engagement
for the video. and
week you do this to the last two videos that you release you want to be able to
really analyze this in a really really granular set okay so this one really took
off for multiple reasons great thumbnail great idea it's bringing traffic in from the
home page it's bringing traffic in from suggestion it's doing everything we want to
do you can see right now good healthy suggested videos notice i'm doing the same
thing over and over again is
something that you need to do. That's something that will, you know, that you do it
more in the adjustment phase. But these are the things that I'm giving you so you
can kind of write them down of how I'm looking at it. Notice that there's not a
lot of erratic drop -offs. Okay. It's pretty smooth and it's even smoother when we
come here. Look at this. It's really, really smooth here. So this means it's a
really good video. People are interested in it. It started to flatten out about two
minutes into it. But once again, I want to see that three -minute mark. Remember
that three -minute mark? And let's go deeper into this.
It was like three -minute.
And yeah, see, you didn't even go below average. So the reason why this one's
performing, this video is performing versus the other, is that 3 to 5 minute mark,
you actually kept it above average. So it's average, right? And then it brought it
way above average at the very end. So YouTube is going to promote it. Now, you
might see that this is not, like this is deceiving where the typical, and I want
you to understand, I don't care about typical. All I care about is that we're here
because typical is based on your typical viewership. This is getting more video
views, which it is 2 .6 times higher, then I literally disregard this because this
is not typical. Okay. This is literally 2 .6 % higher times higher. You can see your
typicals down here. We're getting new audience, new views. And so right here that
tells me, hey, this is a great video idea. You did the video beginning. You had a
higher tension rate in the beginning with more views. Like this is a slam dunk.
This is great content, Tim, and this is what we're trying to validate, right? So as
we validate this, that's coming in, and we can see very specifically, this is doing
exactly what I want to do, and it flattens out how it wants to do. And then when
we come into here, because we're 2 .6 times higher, this is looking perfect,
right? right from my point of view. Yes, you can always improve. Um, and I'm going
to go into two little areas. So right here,
um, you have a little bit of a drop off. I want to see what's going on there.
Design.
The Supreme Timberland. Nice little box right there. Oh my gosh. I've never, oh,
hold on. Yo, that's sick. Oh, how do you love for hooking these out? The Supreme
Coleman collab right here and behind it the Honda supreme dirt bike yeah it could
be get a little bit more energy boom boom boom boom boom but i mean i think they
just hit a little fast forward button on that and then i mean it's a good video
i'm not i'm not complaining at all on that but here's another little drop off oh
not that mesh but right with this material that he loves to use that they don't
use on those shoes anymore And these go for probably like 15 to 20 today. These
recently retro, but this was like... Yeah, I think you're fine. I just, I like to
see these key moments, especially with the intro. Once again, we're going to come to
the audience because this is where I want to go a lot more in depth. And so we're
here with the audience. Look at it. It's doing exactly what I want. Like, it's
doing exactly what I want. So we're looking here. You released the video. video went
out to your most active people, right? So you have returning viewers. Look at it
did that little crisscross right here. So you brought new viewers up. Returning
viewers there. That is really good. That's what we want because we know this video
was so good. YouTube was expanding your audience and it brought in a new audience
and your blue line now went above the purple line, which that's what we wanted
because we wanted it for that moment so that they come in Now, they're more apt to
watch another video. And that's what we want to really have and really define is
this right here, is having that happen, and then that we're giving them another
video for them to watch. That's why the bucket system works really well. If you do
another video like this, it's going to perform based off of this. Now, you'd have
to do it within a, you know, 20 -day, 30 -day period or whatever. But you understand
the bucket system you want to keep your bucket style there. And there might be
other content right now that they're able to watch. And that's something that we're
looking at very specifically. So let's, why don't we go to that because in
engagement, like I said, I don't really dig deep into this at all, but your
engagement's higher than normal. But let's go into suggested video traffic.
Notice, oh, let's just notice 92%. You can see it's 92 % of YouTube recommending,
which that's what we want. We want the 90s, of course. And then specifically,
YouTube has this little weird bug that you have to do, just you have to select it,
and then you can go into traffic sources. So we do that. So we want to go suggest
a video so we can see which one's actually suggesting it. And you can see that a
short is actually suggesting that. And where is the short coming from? It It's
coming from Elliot Page. So you're able to see that. This is really good.
And the reason why the short is suggesting it is because, or is it a short? No,
it's not. It's just a vertical video because the video's four minutes long. No,
that's a short, but they watch four minutes of it. Sorry. A lot going in my mind
right here. But yes, that, yeah, that's really cool. We're able to see that. And
all we're trying to do is get a little bit of more granularity. You didn't get a
lot of views there. It was only like 6 ,000 views coming from that video itself
from suggestion. So ultimately, YouTube's really pounding this out. It's gaining a new
audience. This is based off of a really good title thumbnail combination and also a
really good video. So that's how I analyze. And you want to do every video that
you release, you know, in that granularity. And so this is something that I do in
depth. And I want you all to get in the habit of really analyzing your videos and
making notes of ideas you could do to make it better or why your hypothesis that
it dropped here or why it retained here and why did it spike here. That's what we
want to do a little bit more granular. Now, in this training, we're going to just
do this over and over and over again. And what I want you to do is to do this
on your channel. This is your assignment, to do it on your channel and write down
the things that you noticed. And I want you to kind of deep dive into it. Now,
some of you don't have a lot of videos and don't have a lot of views. I still
want you to go through this process and really start making assumptions of what's
going on. And there might be some things that are incomplete because you don't have
enough data. And that's okay too. But I just want you to get in the habit of
doing this at the beginning of the month.
lot of notes that I am considering to do because we need to get to Section 8, we
need to validate a lot of those things, and that's what we're going to do there.
So this next training that we're going to do here is more about looking at one
other things that we need to do within buckets. I want to do that a little bit
separate because that's a little outside of what I want you to do at the beginning
of the middle of the month. It's something that we get a little hyper -specific in.
So your assignment is Really go through this process for your channel. I want you
to go granular like this. Exactly. And I want you to open up the video in one tab
and do exactly what I did. And when I say, oh, I'm looking at this. I want you
to write stuff down on what you see on your channel. And I want you to get a
little bit more granular. Now, you might say, oh, man, I'm not coming up with the
ideas that you did. Like you did, Daryl. That's okay. I just want you get in the
process to stop, notice something, and then ask the question, why is this happening?
Why, why, why, why, why, why? And I want you to write down possibilities, okay, and
I want you to keep a list. And I want that list to be so complete that when we
get to Section 8, we can go through this again and realize, oh, this is a
commonality or this is a pattern, and ultimately we're able to have this to know
how to adjust. So go through this process on your channel and all your latest
videos and ultimately create that that list of all ideas that you can do for new
videos and then hypothesis of what you could do in upcoming videos and make that
list and we'll see you on the next video.

