8 Tweaking Your Content to Succeed


this is it it's time to analyze and adjust and i can say that section eight is by
far my most favorite section in all of channel jump start now let me tell you been
able to learn a lot through each of the sections and i've always said hey you know
what we're going to save that till section eight well guess what it's It's section
8. I'm really excited because now you're really going to understand the mechanics of
the system. You might not really comprehend everything and that's what I encourage
you to go back through channel jump start until you have those aha moments. And
ultimately what I'm looking for you to do is basically use the process that I use
for YouTube success. And that's where we're planning, we're executing on that plan,
we're really able to deep dive and analyzing what's going on and making the
adjustment. Now, this portion right here, this section right here, I learned so much.
And if you think that you can just get it down and you're good, I want to kind
of explain what I think about this section. So the whole section is really how to
approach things and really know what you're looking for. And for us, we're looking
for patterns. We are looking for patterns patterns and patterns and what we want to
do is based on the patterns is make a hypothesis of what we need to do and once
we are able to do that that is our course correction for our new content and our
new content strategy now we're ever evolving and as data comes in we shouldn't
really understand what that data is and we really broke that down in the kipling
method And that's what I want you to use, because when you use the 5Ws, it really
gives you clarity on the 1H, which is the how. How are we going to approach what
we're going to do moving forward? What are we going to test? How are we going to
do the little improvements, the small tweaks that we need to to really get the
needle moving? Now, I can say that this right here is some of the most important
things I can ever teach you in Channel Jump Start because this is the process that
you need to consider. Now, this is not the end -all be -all section. I want you to
be aware of that, but it really comes back down to really analyzing and the process
of how we analyze and also the most important thing, which is how we make that
adjustment that is so needed for our channel to really thrive. So let me really
give you a perfect example of this, and it's something that I think that all of
you will truly understand by really understanding the priority of really looking for
patterns and seeing the data and then really approaching your content a little bit
differently. But about five years ago, I met Mr. Beast, Jimmy Donaldson. And
ultimately, we did a retreat. We locked ourselves in an Airbnb in Las Vegas with
some other creators. And we're really deep into data because like we're data nerds
and we love it and that actually gives us a better understanding of what our
content is doing who is reaching and ultimately the effect that actually has and
we're always trying to improve that and so when we were going through this a couple
day session i started to see a pattern and this is when youtube actually opened up
the advanced mode gave us the tools to group things together and i was able to
start grouping things together and I saw a pattern and I said, hey, Jimmy,
you know, I actually see something here when you make a certain type of video, you
get anywhere between 2x to 5x to sometimes even 7x more subscribers. And he's like,
well, what is that? Like, let's take a look. And he didn't necessarily see it. And
so we dug into the content and we were able to see that when he actually gave
money to his crew, his boys, he would get subscribers. He would just get subscribers
across the board. And that was something that people were entertained. They'd watch
more videos. They'd come in and they'd watch multiple videos. That's basically the
ideal, right? Well, this is where it gets really interesting. Just because we were
able to group it together and see things a little bit differently, put a different
lens on. I thought, hey, what if I grouped all the videos where he actually got
more subscribers. And I did. I basically took all the videos, put them together, the
most subscribed videos. And there was actually a pattern and a theme. Every single
one of those videos is when he gave away money to the public, to random people.
And when people were able to really were heartfelt of that transformation. And then
he being a little awkward and just moving on. You know, he was able to do that.
Now, that alone, I can honestly say, you know, he was doubling, quintupling,
even seven -xing,
other public money giving away experiences on on YouTube videos and we created a
strategy implant and he did it and he just catapulted with subscribers now that's
not the only reason why he basically took that data and he knew how to course
correct he knew exactly what he needed to do and we tested it and sure enough when
we tested it it was 8x 8x more subscribers than any other time because he was
super intentional. Now, this is what I want all of you to understand. Smart creators
will adjust, okay? People that are just creators, they'll just create.
You have to adjust if you want to survive and thrive in this industry. You have to
as a jump starter. That's how we grow. That's how we always improve and we get
better content. Now, for me, I would like all of you here, a part of Channel
Jumpstart, to really understand what the process is for Section 8. So Section 8 is
all about, you know, really looking at data. And sometimes we don't have the data.
And it's like, how do we look at data? How do we make an assumption? How do we
adjust? And ultimately, how do we actually create our content strategy? Now,
that's what we're actually covering here in Section 8. and ultimately this is where
it begins, but it doesn't end because you're going to be doing this process over
and over and over again. And when I have my superstar students that are just
crushing it on YouTube, they are really, really, really deep diving into this and
having a good pulse of what their channel is and what it's not and what content
works in this scenario and when to use it in the right place. It's like this
really interesting strategic moves that really lead to growth. Now, we're going to go
through all the details of the principles. We're going to start breaking down all
the different channels. And ultimately, you're going to learn a lot. And I would
encourage you to go over and over and over again until you start thinking this way
of really the Kipling method and really deep diving and really be curious and start
grouping things. Well, why did this happen here and group it together. Once you're
able to group that together, it's going to give you ideas. And those ideas is what
you need to test. That is the channel jumpstart system. We've been saying that from
the beginning, plan, execute, analyze, and adjust. Now, here's the whole thing.
And I'm really excited about this. Now is the time we can talk advanced strategies.
I couldn't wait for this. Like, seriously, like all that other stuff is fine. But
you got to the point now where we actually can have deep conversations on the
things that really matter with your content on YouTube and also your audience
building. And we're going to give you examples that's going to really help you be
successful. So buckle up. We're ready to go.

PT2

Hey jump starters we are ready to jump in and really start analyzing data so you
can make better decisions because what do we do as jump starters we make data
driven decisions now what happens if you don't have any data on your YouTube channel
and or you're not necessarily getting the views that we need to to really have good
data. Well, that's what this video is about. And I hope everyone's watching this
video because this is something that I still use, even though that I have my own
data. I need to be able to go out there and really understand what's going on in
the ecosystem and apply it to some of the hypothesis that I have in our new plan.
I mean, that's that adjustment period. So what I'm going to do right now is go
through the process. If you're brand new to YouTube, have zero uploads, or your
channel's not performing optimally, you might when release the video, get a thousand
views or under, I want to be able to show that because I think once you pass the
thousands of views, you're going to get, you know, a couple of videos that have 5
,000 views and 10 ,000 views. Those are well enough data to make some good data
-driven decisions. But if it's under that, what I'm going to do is show you my
process of what I do, regardless if I'm starting fresh or if I have a channel
that's really optimally performing, this is the process.
a look. All right, we're here at the computer, really excited. This is a process
that I actually do a lot. Doesn't matter if I'm just starting a brand new YouTube
channel. Doesn't matter if I have minimal views or data on my channel or I'm
getting millions of views every single day on a channel. This is part of my process
that I go through looking for patterns and really see what's going out there. Now,
in section two and three, we talked about Recon and research. I want to now
basically show you something a little bit differently, now knowing what we know about
Channel Jumpstar. So we know that the AI is powerful, right? And we know what it
will do. It's going to predict what the viewer wants to watch and we're going to
get really, really granular. But now that you know the complete system of Channel
Jumpstart, what I want to do is look for like -minded creators that's actually doing
something similar. Might have some really good titling and thumbnails, but mostly they
get buck.
what we're going to look for is patterns of predictability, patterns of buckets.
So I'm going to go ahead to search. I'm going to type in iPhone. So we have
iPhone here. And we're going to see what comes up. So we have suggested ads that
come up. We have straight talk ads. We have unbox therapy. That's not necessarily
what I'm looking for to do. Knowing the channel Jumpstart way, I want to look for
a creator this like that. So I'm not necessarily doing an unboxing. I'm looking for
someone that, ah, here we go. Okay, so Sarah Grace right here. I tried using only
a fake iPhone. This is what happens. So that's a really good title. I was released
two hours ago, has 27 ,000 views. I don't know who Sarah Grace is. However,
I want to be able to see, is she actually using buckets? So is this a, Is this a
specific bucket or is just a one -off video? Because what I'm looking for is the
patterns of buckets, okay? So let's go ahead and click on her channel. I'm not
going to go to the video itself. And it looks like I tried, I bought, I bought,
I bought fixing. That looks pretty good. I mean, this is actually a pretty good
find right out of the gate. And this is good Because like this is now someone that
I want to watch, knowing that she's using a lot of the bucket system.
So she has an I bought bucket, fixing bucket, I tried bucket, and then like there's
cheap accessories from Amazon. So I think, and these are pretty decent views. She
has like 1 .4 million subscribers, but what I'm looking for now is for patterns.
So I want to see, I tried using only a fake iPhone. So let's go ahead and watch
this video for a little bit. It looks like we had an ad going up so I don't have
my YouTube preferred on this specific account. So we're making her some money here.
I mean that's the that's the least that we can do right. Okay. So we're skipping
that. She comes off and I'm noticing right out of the gate is let me go ahead and
play this. fake Apple products, fake iPhone, fake AirPod, fake Apple Live, fake
everything. It's time for me to say goodbye to all my Apple products and say hello
to my fake Apple products. She's actually really good. I like it. And so I liked
how she was bringing the text up. So that's a pattern I'm going to look at is
she's doing it. It's down down below. I would probably put it in the middle knowing
how people are at. It's just going to be right front and center and knowing that
that a lot of people are gonna be watching on their phone. So she uses that, in
today's video, I use only fake Apple products are 24 hours. So she could have made
this title better if I tried only using fake iPhone for 24 hours or for a week.
That's that variability that we actually do in Channel Jumpstart, right? So let's
look at some of the comments here. Thank you, Sarah and Becca for all you do. What
I'm looking for is this. Okay, Just watch your latest video, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah. You're an amazing person, great role model. And usually when you're actually
seeing comments just two hours after the post, it's like the most core core people
that love your content and they're watching every one of your videos. So it's no
surprising that we're getting this, right? Sarah's back with another amazing tech
vlog. So it's helping me understand kind of the content here. But what I'm looking
for is thumbs -ups and looks like she's actively replying, which is good.
Okay, you use only for 24 hours. Imagine not chunking it against the wall.
So apparently in her video, she must have chucked it against the wall or something
like that. Okay. So just looking for some good comments here.
What I'm noticing, though, is this is a good video right out of the gate, good
viewer -to -like ratio for just being two hours. And then ultimately, it looks like
she's running the bucket system pretty, pretty aggressively, which I love.
So let's do this one right here. This is one that got two million views. Let's
see, how far ago was it? Just a month ago. So two million views. That's decent.
She's doing the same thing. Now, here's the thing that I'm noticing a pattern here
now. Remember, her other video, the text was going down to the bottom. And what did
I say? I said, I wanted to go to the top. I just guarantee you, based on the
data that I know and seeing on other channels, this is the most effective way to
grab people's attention is right, when it's right center over your face and you're
doing it. Check this out.
So she did that right at the very beginning and then kick back down at the bottom.
That's interesting. But what I'm going to do here is we got top comments.
So that guy is faking things. Definitely want to grab it from you. Best find ever.
Okay. So we have 93 replies. This is where we want to dig in. see what's going on
and part of this is something that I believe that we need to keep in mind when
we're actually creating content is she's actually doing a vlog style but with tech
and doing tech experiments that's going on like she's doing something for for 24
hours this one is I bought $7 iPhone from Amazon returns and so this is great you
know great content I think it's really good clickable titles and thumbnails. And now
we're able to see where the value's at. So I don't think so. So people are having
their own conversations going on in comments. It's a really, really good sign that
this is great content. You can see right here, we have 495. Honestly,
I think the guy. So basically, there must be a guy in there. I haven't even the
video and normally I'd watch it a little bit to see what's actually going on but
for this training it's just more grasping what's going on in the video and then
looking at the comments to reply because ultimately we want to do things that would
actually enhance our video strategy our content strategy okay so this is what I
would do day in a day out and the cool thing about it too is I'm going to look
at her suggested videos. And you can see that the bucket system's working here.
We have some Amazon stuff. She has a mixed playlist here. Here's her other. I
bought one dollar iPods from Amazon Returns. So I bought, fill in the blank product
and dollar amount from Amazon Returns is a bucket. Like, man, it's like pretty much
a no brainer here when we go a little bit deeper into it.
And I think the big thing, too, is this is one that I would do a ton of recon
and research when it's coming around tech and also vlog and fun.
She has a lot of great energy. And also, you know, she's doing what I teach.
She's doing what I preach. And like, is she doing it perfect? No, she's not. I can
see like five different variables that we could change just immediately. But for you,
it's like this is a great channel to do recon and research. Now, what would I do
with this? Okay, if I have zero views, if I have a brand new YouTube channel and
I'm like trying to figure things out, you've gone through another recon and research
and you're looking at what YouTube is going to predict for you. And most likely if
you're doing iPhone reviews or anything like I can almost guarantee you you probably
wouldn't have found this channel. And the reason why is you weren't looking for the
same thing that I was looking for in the beginning. And you know, you might have
did Marquis Brownlee or someone like that, you know, that is giving you specific
reviews and you get pulled into a segment of YouTube that you probably didn't even
know. And then YouTube's like promoting other stuff that would be viewer related. And
this channel is, you know, fresh, new, fun. It's great. She has 1 .4 million
subscribers and then ultimately she's doing the system that I'm actually teaching you.
So this would be something that I would deep dive into, really getting to the
bottom of this, is trying to figure out what would work. So right out of the gate,
I bought from Amazon Returns would be one of the highest that I would do. Because
she has 2 million views, it was coming up as suggested videos there at the side.
That's really, really good. So that would be one of the content strategies that I
would develop. I would watch her video, see what she's doing, how it's engaging,
going from there. Now, we're not lifting her video. We're not stealing her content.
We're like making it our own, but using the bucket system. And it could be some
other product or some other things. One thing is how long, I mean, I noticed that
she said for 24 hours or whatever on using the fake iPhone, but I think the big
thing is, you know, make it your own using section four of Channel Jump Start where
you're really getting your own story to it and your own personality and then the
topic's close to the same. So that being said, you can see very closely that we
have now, I bought, you know, fill in the blank dollar amount, fill in the blank
product from Amazon Returns would probably be my main bucket because I know that
that would work. And I basically try to figure out what's going on there. Now, the
viewer to subscribe ratios high on some of these. And one of the other things I
like to do is come here to search and I'm going to just type on Amazon because
like I want to dig a little bit deeper. I'm going to see that I bought the
cheapest iPhones on Amazon. I went to Amazon Tech Return Store. So that's a really
good idea. It's like going to the tech return store and coming back with the
product and then that kind of leads up to the series of buying some some
opportunity. So that's kind of where my mind's going. It's like, hey, not just
buying returns, but if you go to the tech return store, that could be a video that
could fill in this bucket and really develop that story what we're looking for.
Ultimately, I'm going back through this and seeing I bought one dollar iPods for
Amazon returns. Like we just saw many gadgets that actually work from Amazon. So
like Amazon would be one of those things that I'd always say, okay, when I can do
it on Amazon, I'm going to do it, because that is most likely where people are
going to buy things, or that, you know, they see it and they buy it. Or Amazon is
part of our day -to -day shopping, you know. And I think that kind of brings it in.
And then, too, people can actually look a lot deeper when when it comes to that.
So yeah, I mean, this is really important. I'm looking at, you know, all the back
to school clothes from Amazon. She's using that as well. And, you know, so it's
tech, vlog, whatever. But this is giving some very solid ideas of what type of
content to produce. Now, knowing the channel's jumpstart system, knowing what we're
looking for, we're looking for an idea, which we have an idea. We're also looking
for a bucket, which we have a bucket. And we're also looking for pop culture or
something that's trending, which is Amazon. That is like the holy trifecta of really
getting something good. Now, what do we do from here? We dig deeper. We go deeper
into it and really look at recon and research. So I'd probably use this,
start seeing what she's done, get the AI to pick up, and then look at what it's
being recommended. But ultimately, I think we've done it Right out of the gate, I
was actually pretty surprised here, right out of the gate, we actually found a
channel, be off our key word that was able to do what we were looking for,
which is getting a smart creator, getting some creator that's getting some growth,
and then a creator that's using the bucket system, which she is. And she has
ultimately several ideas here. And we just need to look at, okay,
the great idea, We have a great bucket and we have a great, you know, trending
topic. That's perfect. So now let's try to polish up a good title, which we already
have. We just need to know what the fill in the blink product is and also the
fill in the brink price. So I bought $1 product at from Amazon returns.
So that's great title. And then two, we got to use Amazon somewhere in the
thumbnail or whatever. That's basically some of the things that I see there as well.
So I hope this is making sense. And, you know, we were able to do tech.
And now knowing this, okay, that's great. We're able to go. Let me do one more.
Okay, now we come back to the homepage and look who's showing up. Sarah Grace is
coming up with that idea that we're actually looking to explore. Now, I want to do
a completely different channel. I want to look through a lens differently. So I'm
giving you different examples of different channels because I know not all
something that we actually want to watch and engage with. So for me, since we did
tech, let's do something that I'm passionate about. I'm super passionate about travel.
And I want to just go through the process of how I think about travel.
I love exotic places and I like, you know, just different cultures and stuff like
that. And I think that's a great piece of content because you're able to see people
that could be curious and then also from there. However, I'm more thinking in the
mode of travel. So you have RVs, you have cars, you have planes,
and you have trains. And it's like, okay, we have all that's going on. And then
two, right now I'm thinking in the back of my mind is last couple of years, it's
been very difficult in the world to travel. And a lot of people are itching to go.
You know, how would they go? What would they do? what would actually be the
indicator? And then, two, now knowing gas prices is a little bit more expensive, are
there different modes of travel that are going to be cheaper? That's kind of all
the stuff that I'm thinking about. And that's something that you should consider.
Like I'm literally trying to put a picture together of what would make the content
more valuable. And so I'm going to just say planes are out because, I mean,
yeah, that might work. I've seen it done before and you know exotic places and you
know different types of trips that's fine road trips are interesting for me you know
that could be something we're going to explore I've seen that's done a lot they do
travel vlogs and they do a lot of road trips and that would also include RVs I'm
going to literally stay away from those because we got we got planes and we got
cars now I'm thinking about trains And so I'm going to do trains because that's a
little different. It's something that's been around for a very long time. And also,
you know, this could be unique, unique content. This makes this different than
somebody's doing an RV or vice versa. So what I'm going to look out there is, is
there a channel out there that's doing what I'm passionate about? Let's say that I
am super passionate about travel and I want to do these great videos. is it best
to go which direction? And so for me, I'm actually making an assumption here that
we're going to find someone that's doing the channel jumps or a system without
knowing the channel jumps or a system. Like they're going to have really good ideas.
And then we want to see if they do buckets. That's the whole thing is that they
do buckets. And there is a predictability of success. That's what we're actually
looking for. So going back to, we're taking out planes. We're going to do trains.
I won't type in the word train, and I want to tell you why. That's a common
thing. I think it's going to take us down a path that I don't necessarily want to
go down. I want to just say what's synonymous when I think of trains in the U .S.
I think of Amtrak's. Okay, so Amtrak's is something. It's a mode of transportation,
you know, in the U .S. And so I'm going to just type it in Amtrak's,
Amtrak's, and I'm going to just type that one keyword in. Let's see what comes up.
Okay, so two ads, and then we have this one right here,
Amtrak's least popular train. Where does it go? Four hours ago has 8 ,000 views.
Not too crazy, but I noticed a little verification. So for me,
in my mind, I'm thinking, okay, it might be a little bit bigger. So I'm going to
go ahead and click on the channel, not the video. And then I'm going to come to
the video tab here because I want to see it. Now, this actually looks pretty close
to the channel jump start system. Here he has mode of travel and so on. 82 hours
on the Amtrak's most scenic train has 116 views seven days ago. He has about 3703
,000 subscribers. It's kind of hit or miss, like not super loyal audience.
So I'm wondering,
because this could be the series. So time on most luxurious train fill in the
blank, right? So that has kind of the things that we're looking for. And then, too,
you know, it does look like he's getting some coming up on some trains and some
rides. And it looks like he's going on some other trains across Canada and then
also on Amtrak, A really good engagement on comments.
I'm just looking at who's watching what. Come back to the most top comments.
The interior on this train is incredible. Dome window looks sci -fi filling. You
know, I have people that's really responding to these. Not a lot of communication in
between it, but there's a lot of thumbs up. You know, so people are interested in
train. So this one I would probably dig deeper. So I do look at a mistake that
he's actually making here. So 48 hours, 46 hours. I do know that it's probably that
that is the time that it takes on the train. However, pick a time. Is it 24 hours
on a train? 48 hours on a train. Not 46, go 48. Even though that you're probably
going 46, I would put 48 because that's what we do I'm sorry, we were able to get
it so that we can put those keywords in there. And it looks like, you know, 24
hours in the coach, you know, there's some things here. Then there's like Air
Canada, too. So, I mean, that's getting somewhat interesting. Content's looking a
little bit older. And then, too,
in the sense of popularity, so I don't know if this is a good vein or not. But,
you know, there's not a lot of connection right out of the gate that I can see
from those videos. Like there's nothing immediately that has a ton of use. It's just
a couple, you know, under 100 ,000. So this probably, even though that he's doing a
lot of things right, I'd probably put him on the radar, but probably not where we
truly want to go. So let's go back to our search and let's go to the next one.
Grounded, live travel. So we're going to go ahead, once again, click on the channel.
And then I want to see popular uploads. Look, a million views in seven months.
I really like that. Guided tour, kind of the breakdown. Grounded Life Travel, this
is interesting. I'm going to go a day ago. They have 70 ,000 subscribers, 10 ,000
views. Let's go ahead.
Build her in three days. You know, it's interesting.
I think the thing for us is we might be able to get some ideas off this channel.
It doesn't necessarily see the pattern that's there. I think they just ride trains
and then just kind of document it. We could definitely do the bucket system here.
But before we go, we got to see what the most popular is. And here's one million
of you seven months ago. So like that, that alone, I know we saw that earlier. I
just wanted to see if that was the popular. Um, you know, Amtrak travel, uh,
14 days or less. So I think there's a couple of things is, um, you know, missing
out on the opportunity of the time. I think the time, uh, you need to have
variations on it, but also the price. So like this could work. I think this could
be an amazing channel. I think this could be amazing content, but still, this is
not what I'm looking for. I'm looking for the right data and that right data will
lead us to good data data -driven decisions from there. So let's go back to our
search. And we don't get the top one. We don't got the second one. Let's go the
third one. Trek trending. That looks pretty good. 36 hours on an Amtrak Pacific
Sleeper. So let's go ahead and click that. Today, I'm flying the world. Okay.
And let's just go right into videos because that's where we go. 200 thousand
subscribers and look at those freaking views holy cow okay so i think we found i
think i think we found our channel here um and it's going through uh some really
good subscriber to view ratio uh there's momentum three weeks ago they had two
million views uh 28 hours on the world's most luxurious train um i like that um I
think it's like I would have probably done 24 hours, even though it was 28, you
know, it's just like 24 hours on the most luxurious train in fill in the blank.
And, you know, I think that ultimately this is a channel that we could do buckets,
knowing the bucket system, because I'm looking back right here. I mean, you got two
million views. They have the overnight sleeper Sleeper won, 1 .9 million views, 1 .1,
1 .3, 10 freaking million views. Look at that. 10 million views. Like that,
that is crazy. Like, I'm surprised he doesn't have more subscribers for that. Let me
go, let me dig into it. So that is the number one. Number two is he's doing it
through travel, through airplanes too. So it looks like Planes and trains.
Luxurious travel, I guess, is kind of his thing. But this is interesting.
This is interesting. I definitely, if I'm starting a travel channel, I would consider
this one as the one that we can do recon and research. And ultimately, let's go to
this one that's three months ago because that's what we're looking for, right? We're
looking for A good title that has a bucket, which this has a bucket.
And then we want a ton of views in a short amount of time. And like,
I'm just looking at some of these. So pump that you took this trip, incredible.
And then we have people that are just kind of going off on this. And then others
right here, my son and I traveled Oregon. So there's a lot of people that are
curious and travel and and looking at unique ways to do it but ultimately what I
would do is go through every single video and and they got a ton of views and
look for for buckets I'd write them down but right now it's fill in the blank time
I would try to be you know 24 48 72 hours sometimes it's different and then on
luxury Amtrak Amtrak sleeper train. And then I would not even put Chicago to San
Francisco. I don't think they're going to get a lot of traffic from search, but I
would put it definitely in the first part of the description. So hopefully this is
giving you ideas. And so once again, just like we talked about for the tech and
iPhone channel, what we want to do is do some recon and research, go a little bit
deeper on it. But we found now a creator that's actually using something similar to
Channel Jumpstart, All right, Luke.
loyalty factor. That's what we're looking for. All right. So now that we did the
reconnected research, the advanced way of really understand how to really look and
navigate YouTube when we don't have data, I want to put a very important point out
there is we always do that no matter our size. Like that's a way to be relevant.
That's a way to really look out there to see, oh, they're doing it this way, gives
you ideas for content that is working right now on YouTube. And We're also looking
for that one other feature, which is people that are seeing a bucket that will
work. So I was able to show you there, and that's something that I do. Now, what
I want to do now is show you a completely independent channel. It has nothing to
do with iPhone. It doesn't have anything to do with the other niche for trains.
But what we're going to do is kind of deep dive into a period of time where you
actually need to make a smart decision. And a lot of you run into this in one
point or another. And it doesn't matter if you're starting out and you're starting
seeing some momentum. That's the case here with Shervin. But ultimately, we got to
make the right decision on the content play. And some of it is some very big
decisions. So here we're on in Shervin shares. He's all about optimizing for the
health. He's been on YouTube for a while and he come into Channel Jump Start,
started seeing some momentum. Let's go ahead and go into the back end. You can see
that he released a video just as of late. It's 2 out of 10, has 3 .5 ,000 views,
which is the momentum. And it's on the WatchOS 9 massive health update.
So it looks like Apple did an update. He did a video on it, which is great, where
he's optimizing health. It makes sense that he actually has an Apple Watch.
We can see that we got green arrows here. Things are looking good. Now, that being
said, what we want to do is deep dive into analytics and really go. Now, what I
want to do is something a little bit different than I did before.
I want to go back the last 365 days so that you're able to see what's actually
happening. And some of you might still see the same type of thing. You look right
here, there was like a spike and a spike and a spike. This is about a year ago.
And then he had another spike here and then another spike here. He actually didn't
understand how to capitalize on that. He came into Channel Jumpstart and look what's
happening right now. He is growing. So there's momentum growing. Things are being
very interesting on YouTube. So what we want to do is really define that. So where
is the momentum coming from? We're really important. Like that's something we need to
decide. And then two, is it the audience? Is it the right audience that we think
that it is? And what type of content that they like? So one of the first things I
do before I get into real -time analytics is come down here, the top content for
this period. And basically, it's looking at the 365 days because that's what I
selected. And that's the result. So we see I used an Apple Watch 7 as my phone
for 24 hours. How to do laundry at a laundromat. I don't know how that has to do
with health update. That could be back in the days that he was just throwing up
videos like spaghetti on the wall. I don't know. How to do a cheap ice bath at
home, a cold plunge tub. Okay, that's great. It has 22 ,000 views. I bought every
Vivo Barefoot shoe. I don't even know what Vivo Barefoot is. So let's go to Mr.
YouTube. Vivo Bearfoot.
Okay, so it's just like, oh, okay, natural, kind of the naturalists and then also
people that are that are trying to have less abrasive shoes and just more with
nature like that a lot. And it looks like a little bit of minimalism. I saw that
a little bit here, but they're looking for a natural approach. So that tells me
quite a bit about the viewer that's actually coming in on this of who he was
trying to attract, because I had no idea that that company even existed.
Or a ring, that's health, the braided apple -light cable. I don't know how that has
to do with optimized health. Maybe it does. I don't know. Maybe that was back in
the time. He was still trying to figure things out. Train, fight camp for 100 days.
That's health. Eight sleep pods versus chill, Oler, okay,
and then MagSafe, battery pack, okay, and ordering. Okay, so those are like all the
videos that were performing last year. I'm going to switch just back to 28 days
because I want to know what's happening now. Generally, we can come here, but I
like to go into my favorite place, which is real -time analytics. Just give a little
bit of an understanding of what's going on. So right here, we can see the number
one video that's bringing the bulk of the views, and that's going to translate down
to other Apple Watch videos. Is I used an Apple Watch 7 as my iPhone.
He did that at the beginning of the year. And I can see that there is momentum
here and there's certain things. Now, my question is, is that the type of viewer
that he's looking for? Is that something we need to deep dive in? That's something
we're going to analyze. And then number two, as your second most popular video,
which is I bought every Vivo barefoot shoes. So I think we have some stuff going
on here. So we're going to need to make some really, really good understanding of
who the audience is. And so the next tab is the who. We want to know who's
watching what. And we can see here we got the blue line and the purple line.
So remember If the purple's over the blue, you have a loyal audience. If the blue's
over the purple, and there's the significance, like what's worth here, that means
they're not a very loyal audience. They're coming for a video or two and not
necessarily subscribing or engaging with all your content. So whether that is an
indicator that my content strategy is off a little bit, or I'm not capitalizing on
that opportunity proper. Okay, so coming back down to videos that grow your audience.
They're all low. So that's another indicator that you're probably going to be in the
1 .1 average view per viewer to 1 .2. We're also looking at other channels that they
watch. So let's go ahead and look at some of these real quick. Just so you have
some context. Okay, it looks like a tech channel with iOS updates.
That can make sense because this is in the last 28 days. I update, so I would
assume that it is. Tech millennial, I'd accept that what it is. I don't know who
this guy is. Let's see if he is anything.
Tech -wise tech. Yep, straight tech, vlogger, reviewer, DC Rainmaker.
Let's see this one as well. Looks like he is going in deep, deep dives for tech.
So That's kind of a red flag for me, especially when you're trying to optimize
health, that you're really appealing to the tech people. But they could have that
crossover of their interest in the viewership that's in tech, but also health.
Here, it looks like everything, Apple Watch. Let's go deeper. Apple Watch, Apple
Watch, Apple Watch. Okay, so we've got some things that we're going to have to
decide here. Geography, U .S. number one, 41 % that's good.
Once again, non -subscribed is at 95. So look, I already know it's not a loyal
audience. So let's go a little bit deeper into this. And I think part of it is
understanding who's consuming what, right? So let's go ahead and do the average view
per viewer. 1 .3. So yeah, 1 .3 across. So they're watching some stuff.
It looks like they're watching your Apple Watch type stuff. And the Vivo Bearfoot is
0 .2, 1 .2. But everything else looks like it's like 1 .1, 1 .2.
So they're really not as loyal. And I think the biggest thing is we need to start
comparing what I believe is some differentiation between your viewers.
So you have one that's really, really, really interested in the Apple Watch, and
then you have your health -related stuff. So I went ahead and prepared a couple
groups. We have the Health Group and the Apple Watch group. And I'm going to go to
Do Head and do Health over here, and we'll change this one to Apple Watch.
So I just basically put everything in there. Let's go ahead and do Multimetric. So
over the course last 28 days, you can see that 48 ,000 views came from the Apple
Watch. One video has got 40 ,000 of those views, okay? So that's the main driver.
And then your health channels, I quit sugar, I tried the most expensive meal,
so on and so forth. So not looking at the click through rate, not looking at
anything, all I want to do is come up with a good content strategy plan that would
be in line with where our channels at. That's the analysis that we're doing. So the
indicator is how
video is really taking off and bringing the bulk of the views there. And so that's
something we need to look at. But I can tell you, I've been doing this a lot. I
can tell you that it's a different audience. And I want to show why I believe
that. And we'll show a couple things. But the first thing we need to really do is
drill down to where they're watching the content because that gives us an indicator
from there. And what we care about isn't necessarily the graph here. What we care
about is a percentage, right? So browse feature percentage, 60%, YouTube search, 24%.
So really your Apple Watch is being recommended on the homepage. Congratulations,
that's really good because YouTube's now saying, you know what, when you release a
video, you have a high probability of that going on the homepage, okay?
Once Again, 32 % browse feature channel pages, 26%,
and then YouTube search, 12%. So that's actually really good, too. You might not
necessarily see it as good news. I do because YouTube says, hey, your content's good
enough to go on the homepage. It does attract someone. So let's go to the 90 -day
view. That will give us a little bit better idea of what's going on with this
content because there's some other content from there. Once again, we're looking at
just percentages. And once again, 42 % and 23%.
Now, we are now understanding where they're coming from. Now, we need to know the
age. Now, I do believe that the audience is different. And I think over the group
of it, they're coming for different reasons. And so the value proposition needs to
be clearly defined with the viewer that you're going after. So let's go to view
your age. And voila,
your blue is the Apple Watch. It's a very younger audience. You can see the 18 to
24 is a lot higher percentage wise, right? And health -wise,
they're more millennial. So, I mean, Gen Z, millennial. Okay. So it is hitting a
little bit different. And the question is, is what's going on here? who's watching
what. So I think part of it would be coming back down to the next indicator,
which is the average percent viewed. And that's something I want to know. The
average percent viewed on your other videos are 43 percent where your Apple Watch
videos are 30 percent. So like there is some things going for this channel.
And if I was the owner of this channel, I would have to make some hard decisions
of what to do next. It's because it looks like an audience is coming for one
thing. We could double down and double down.
and then for videos, but I'm going to just look at it. Okay, health -related, great.
Health -related, great. Eight sleep, doc pro, don't make this mistake. It could
possibly health -related. I have a condition that I have a hard time sleeping.
This could deal with, you know, sleep hacks, which would be great. Most expensive
meal service for a week, okay, that could be healthy, healthy food, right? I quit
sugar for 30 days and same blood results. Okay, that's great. I tried scientifically
tests an average American diet. That's interesting. And look, yeah, we got a lot of
health stuff right here. So the question is, what's actually happening here?
So I use an iPad Mini 6 as my iPhone for 24 hours. So he doubled down on this
specific video, which makes sense but is it the right audience and I'm saying it's
probably not so what do we do what do we do in this scenario so what we need to
do is more deep dive into a video so I'm gonna pick this I quit sugar for 30
days insane blood test results so I assume what's going on with this video I
haven't watched the video I'm gonna go ahead and take a look at a couple things.
We'll just kind of play this real quick.
And it has everything to do with sugar, right? So like your sugar,
giving you energy. You're going to test it out, so you quit it for 30 days. And
it looks like you have the continuous glucose monitor here that you're doing it. So
that's a great, great video. You can see the before and afters and so on. have
good, good engagement -ish for this size of video. But I want to go to the next
one right here. So I tried the most expensive mill service for a week, okay? And
you have less views, less comments. But I want to deep dive into the thought
process of the comments. Lucy said, I wonder what would happen if you get the least
expensive mill service to. Let's see what Shervin actually replied to. Are you
talking about McDonald's? Oh, brilliant. I survived on McDonald's dollar menu for a
week. That's actually an interesting video. I think you should do it because it's in
line if you show the health results, right? The health results would be what you'd
need to do. And I do believe this is kind of the process of where my mind is
going for this channel is what if it was how to optimize for life,
right? So health is a bucket. It'd be your main bucket about 80%, 80 % is what I
would say of the company. The other 20 % would be just kind of life hacks. I think
that's pretty interesting. And I think that would connect with the millennial audience
because millennials are looking to minimize that's part of a life hack or whatever
in optimizing for good health.
for the iPhone and also the Apple Watch and some of the biggest videos are there.
Then you have another one for health -related things, and you kind of have a blend.
So I would come up with ideas of surviving for 24 hours without my iPhone.
Okay, that's not very interesting. I don't think I'd click on that, Right. But what
about a week? What about a month? You know, surviving 30 days without my phone, you
know, and, you know, putting it in a box, putting it away. And the whole reason
why is to give you mental health. You know, that's that portion of the mental
health. If you're optimizing your health, mental health is really important. That's
why you're doing it. You're really teeing it up for that. And that's the whole
reason why you're doing it of how often you check in. So for me, the video could
about, um, I just looked at, you know, my usage on my iPhone. It says I do eight
hours. I'm in these apps. I notice that, you know, I get all worked up when I'm
on social media. Um, I'm going to go ahead and go cold turkey for 30 days, see if
I can survive. And boom, that's your video. That's a really, really great idea. But
you're doing it for your mental health. That's the whole thing. That's the journey.
And that's when you're mixing the iPhone with health. And I think that's what's
going to pull in getting your video out to other people that are there. That's a
really good idea to test. Also, I do like the McDonald's one.
I really do. I like the comment there that was made by the creator based off at
least expensive. But once again, what is it about? Well, optimizing health,
optimizing your life, you know, what happens to your body when you actually eat
McDonald's for 30 days? I watched a documentary. I never went to McDonald's ever
again. You know, I never did. I just don't. It's just what, you know, it just kind
of, kind of threw me out. And I saw what was happening to the body. So the whole
thing would be, you know, if you're, if the, if the creator's going to do a
content strategy like this, I was okay. The whole reason why you're doing it is to
show, you know, how it impacts your health and you need to be able to have the
diagnosis before and after and what it's actually doing to your body because that is
the experiment. That is really how to optimize your help in life. So,
you know, that's some great ideas. And then two, I want to address the constant
issue and need for reviews. So everything is all about health.
It's all about lifestyle. It's all about wellness. And so whenever we're doing
titling, it's all about to get better sleep. Now, don't make this mistake. You know
what I'm saying? Like, I would think about better sleep, because better sleep
translates into better health. You know, so everything needs to be health driven. You
know, watch OS 9 massive health updates. That's the reason why I think that that
video is popping off higher than anything else through the weeks that you did
because it's trending. It's news that you have that that that that that portion of
it. But also it's dealing on on par. It's like big help updates. Also going back,
you can see that I trained weight loss for weight loss pills and they worked. Well,
I'm wondering if you did this. I tried a $100 weight loss pills for 30 days. this
is what happened. And I want to explain why, because you're saying they worked,
well, I'm not as curious as this is what happened. Did it work? Did it not work?
That's something that I would dive in deeper, and that's kind of your titling
strategy that you'd need to look into doing this. That's all I do is to be
thinking about this before I created a strategy and a plan. Next, coming back to
all this,
that's basically
the small tweak. And so when I'm looking at small tweaks, it's like more going out
there, seeing what's out there. I really like the iPhone idea without it for 30
days. I think it will hit really well, but you got to do it for health -related.
And that's how I'd frame the video. That's how I'd tell the story, and that's how
I'd really weave it up, is how many people are consuming and they're tethered to
their phone. They don't let their phone go more than three feet from them. I can
find all the studies and just really talk about the health side of it, and then
you're going to go without it and see where it's at. So I think that is an
amazing content, and I would do that in a heartbeat on this channel because it kind
of blends both audiences together. And that's what we'll need a test to really see,
did that actually do what we think we're actually doing? So when we're coming into
it, there's a lot that's going on. And I do want you all to know in this
training, you're just making very, very specific analysis. You're looking for patterns
and you're looking at also the things that we actually talked about of really
getting the 5Ws and also how we're going to change our content. And that's where I
truly do believe doing this type of content strategy and putting a plan together and
going a little bit more in research will help you be more successful. So that being
said, if you're not getting a lot of traffic on your channels and you have a
different audience, I want you to go through this video a couple of times and then
also go back and do more advanced recon and research the way that I showed you at
the beginning of the video. And that will help you put a good plan together to
consider making Azure next videos that come out.

PT3

Hey, jump starters. We are ready to jump right in and really go over something
that's extremely important because it will lead to your either failure or your
success based on what you're actually learning here. Now, let me give you the tell
of two creators. I've been on YouTube says 2005 and I've seen these creators fall
into a group and you might be one of these creators, right? So you have creator A
who is extremely impulsive. Okay, They are really good on camera.
They're magnetic, but they change their content strategy. One day that they're a
slime channel. The next day, they're a vlog channel. The next day they're an
exercise channel, but they're really impulsive on their decision -making process. That
right there is inhibiting their growth because they can't really grow a community
because the community doesn't know what the heck they are. And ultimately, I've seen
even bigger creators that shift and they see a huge decline in their specific
viewership because of decisions that they made on their content strategy. And then on
the flip side, I've seen other content creators that are very consistent. They're
consistent in their videos. They're consistent in the way that they approach things.
They're consistent in their niche. And they grow. They literally grow. And then they
reach a point where they plateau and that plateau is where they start coming down
down down and i can tell you that i've witnessed content creators that have made
millions and millions and millions of dollars every year that go down to not even
making 100 000 and ultimately they didn't adjust at the right time and so they
thought hey this is the way that it always needs to be and they didn't really
understand their audience or make the adjustment that's there so there's different
types of creators and you might be leaning towards one side versus the other side.
And I can honestly say, I learned some very hard lessons 25 years ago when I was
starting business. And I'm here to tell you, I went to my wife, says, hey, I'm
looking to start my business. And she was extremely supportive. And ultimately, she
loves security. She loves stability. She loves continuity. And when we take our
approaches, we're kind of ying to the yang. I'm more impulsive. I'm more spontaneous.
I'm more aggressive. I'm more goal -centered. Where she just likes stability and she
likes a long -term approach. And she analyzes a lot deeper on so many different
things. So 25 years ago, I've literally had goals in mind and I wanted to do
certain things. And I actually was so focused in on the goal that I wasn't taking
in the data that I needed to adjust. And even though that I was doing the things
and making some very huge accomplishments, some of the stuff that I was doing was
creating new problems for me that I didn't even, I wasn't even aware of because I
was so fast and so aggressive and so impulsive that I wasn't aware that this was
actually building up. And ultimately, I've seen things where it brought really
difficult times in my wife's and my life because I didn't look at all the data.
Now, luckily, since then, it happened early on in my career, thank goodness, and I
was able to have a couple mentors along the way that helped me understand the
balance of adjustment, the balance of knowing what to adjust, where to adjust, and
how to adjust. That's what I want to teach you here with the methodology of the
speedboat versus the ocean liner. So let me talk about the speedboat. Speedboats, me,
very aggressive, very fast, want to get things done, want to get to that finish
line is
destroy everything that you're building. I'm going to explain everywhere you need to
be fast in that regard when it comes to YouTube. Now, on the flip side, you have
the ocean liner. The ocean liner is slow, it is steady, it keeps the course.
For them to do things, it takes a very specific period of time and effort and
strategy to get you where you want to be. Now, I have found that in YouTube,
there's certain things that you need to focus in on more as an ocean liner versus
is a speedboat and other things as a speedboat versus a
predictable for the AI, predictable for our viewer, predictable for the people that
love our content to get predictable content, but also as that adjusts, we can adjust
fast and slow based on the data. And we'll make good data -driven decisions. So
let's go over to the computer. Okay, we are here at the computer, and the approach
would be, how do we actually make the right decision with the right type of speed?
Now, we have the speedboat approach, which is fast, and also the ocean liner, which
is slow and steady and consistent. Now, for me, it comes back down to a variable
when you upload the video to YouTube. YouTube is going to get the traffic of where
it's going to come. Hopefully, it's going on the browse feature, which is homepage
and subscription feed. Hopefully it's starting to pick up suggested video views. That
means that video on the side of the video or beneath the video if you're on
mobile. Or it's getting notification traffic coming in and other YouTube features.
And so that's kind of what we're hoping happens. And if you remember the training
that Justin gave in 7 .7, we really talked about baselines, really understanding your
baselines because you need to know what your baseline is for your click -through rate
based off of views and so on, because that's where we're going to make very, very
specific decisions. Now, in YouTube, we can actually look at videos and how they
perform if this one out of 10 or 10 out of 10 or everything in between, right?
That's not an indicator that I'm comfortable with. I think it's a good glance and
then dig deeper, but ultimately I want to see where the click -through rate is. And
also, I want to make that adjustment. So as Justin showed you how to get the
baseline, we need to make very tactical decisions on what to do. Now, ultimately,
The speedboat approach is only changing out thumbnails and titles.
We're not doing both. You've got to pick one or the other. Now, nine times out of
ten, I can tell you, I only change the thumbnail. I don't change the title. I've
already done my research on the title. I have the best title possible. And
ultimately, I will actually do the thumbnail first, probably three different variations
before I even touch the title. So those are the things that we're looking at and
the speed of which we're doing it is we gotta give YouTube enough time to do its
thing. So I usually like to do right around three hours, make an adjustment if I
see it's not necessarily performing, and then again at seven hours, and then
ultimately at 12 hours, and then ultimately 24 hours and 48. So I mean,
that's kind of the speed essence of it. However, there's ways to really modify it
in a really smart way is just knowing where you're at and how it's reaching.
So I'm going to give you an example perfectly that will define this. And we're
doing it here a video with Robbie Layton, a jump starter, had a specific title and
thumbnail. And you can see that it's literally underperforming. Now, going into
analytics, we saw that the click -through rate was extremely low.
There was something off. And, you know, it might have been the way that it was
titled. It might have been the thumbnail. What we needed to do is really take a
look at it and really have it at a glance. Now, what we did was switched out the
thumbnail. And we got a brand new thumbnail. Basically, Robbie was taking over Matt's
offer of recovery and doing recoveries for Matt while he was gone.
we actually started to increase. So the moment that we switched that out, which was
literally just a couple hours into it, we made the decision to switch it out.
And from that, we were able to go from a 10 out of 10 underperforming, and now
we're about 7 out of 10 when it's climbing up. But ultimately, we are climbing up
and getting more and more of an audience. Now, that is what we call a very, very
quick modification. That's a very quick analysis and adjustment.
Now, that's something I want you as a content creator to do, especially as a jump
starter, is to really make good data -driven decisions of when to switch out the
thumbnail. Now, you might want to switch it out immediately. And there's times that
you don't. It's times you let it do its thing. You need to understand your
baseline. Is it above baseline? Is it below baseline, if it's below baseline, what
do you do? Boom, you switch it out. And ultimately, I want you to do the thumbnail
first. Thumbnell, like 90 % of the time, okay? That title should be really locked in
using the channel jumpstart system. If you're changing the title, I think that you're
missing out on what really grabs people's attention for that click through rate. It's
the title is like literally the last. They look at the thumbnail, then they glance
at the title. It just needs to reinforce the thumbnail grabs their attention and the
title really pulls them in with that curiosity factor if we've done that right.
Okay, let me show you a different example and this next one is with another jump
starter patty cakes. He has a couple gaming channels that are blowing up on YouTube
and ultimately he had a type of video. It was a tiered list. And ultimately there's
a tiered list strategy and it's really great content. This is his actual thumbnail.
And when he released it, it was doing great. You know, great performer. It was up
on homepage. But what happens when you make a modification? So there's another
creator, Lockland, who's a gamer, did a similar type of thumbnail, but did it in a
different way. And Patty goes, Paddy Kate goes, do you know what? I'm to actually
look at it, see how I can improve because like his thumbnail.
that was getting more people to click, didn't even change the title, and it started
to go way up drastically, and it became one of the most viewed videos on his
channel. Now, that being said, this is the moment that we look at, is when do we
make those decisions, and it's really understanding the timing of it. So what you
need to do is learn when to adjust, how to adjust, and that's something that we're
going to do in real time, but the good thing about it is once you see a pattern,
you can actually do it. So here's another thumbnail that Patty did. You switched it
out with this thumbnail. That's something that we want to do and look at the growth
that actually occurred. So that being said, that's what we're trying to do here, is
truly understand when to actually adjust this. Now, we do it right out of the gate,
three hours, seven hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours. That's kind of where I look
at it, give it enough time to do its thing. Don't meddle too much. I like to see
what it's going to do is that the impressions going up. YouTube kind of does it in
real time so you can do it. And I don't want you to be overly focused in on
that. If it's way under the baseline, just switch out that thumbnail that should see
improvement in a couple hours. Okay? Okay, so this next one is a jump starter named
Santiago. He has a couple channels and is really blowing up on YouTube. Now, a lot
of you basically will actually do this speedboat approach to changing out your
thumbnails. Okay, you will. You'll actually look at it, change out your thumbnails.
You'll actually do what I showed you very quickly within those three hours, seven
hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, you'll modify the thumbnail. What I love about
Santiago is he's always looking to analyze and adjust. And he actually found a
pattern here of how to get an extra million video views. Would you want to know
how to do that? Well, let me kind of explain his approach. So here's his main
thumbnail that he did for a video. And when he saw the moment,
it was like 80 days into it, he switched it out with this thumbnail. Okay. He
found that this thumbnail was working better. So he was actually analyzing his
content, realized that this thumbnail was doing so much better. It was less busy.
an extra million video views on that specific video. So knowing it was coming from
suggestion, he knew 80 days into it, he switched out the thumbnail and got another
million video views. That is super powerful. Look at the lift at that channel. It
literally started lifting up more with suggested videos. So my whole thing is good
data is good data and making good data -driven decisions is what we're trying to do.
And I'm here to tell you, it's not always how you think. You've got to look for
patterns. That's the whole thing that we're trying to do. And patterns are on your
content of understanding your baselines and what things are happening and how you're
grouping it in groups and knowing your traffic sources. It's really important. So let
me give you another example. Here is another Santiago thumbnail, was really
performing, and ultimately he switched it to this. Now,
And ultimately, I would say maybe that's not the best decision.
But Santiago understands the channel jumpstart system. He's looking at the data. And
what he did is 148 days into the video. He switched it to that other thumbnail.
And it got another million views. Another million views. It started to take off and
go through it through suggestion. That's what I'm saying is there's a timing to do
it, and ultimately there's a speedboat approach at really making it very quick at 3,
7, 12, 24, 48 hours. Those are the quick speedboat approach, but Santiago's also
usually the ocean liner approach where he sees a specific style of thumbnail that
performs really well for suggested video views, right? And so Why not switch that
out and switching it out led to more views and ultimately that's a pattern that he
does. He goes, oh, okay, this video is getting there. We need to refresh it. We
need to refresh it. And it goes out higher click through rate in suggestion and
ultimately getting him more views. Now, I want to give you another approach here.
Let me show you this other one. When he did switch out the thumbnail, I want to
show you here, look at the click through rate. Here's the whole graph, and we're on
the click through rate. It is the highest. It's way higher. Look at that. It's way
higher than he initially released it. However, I don't think that that would have
been a smart thing for him to do out of the gate because, you know, his face,
there's a loyalty factor on his channel. People will click if his faces on it. But
149, 48 days into it, you know, suggested traffic. Maybe people are clicking on it
because they're more interested. They can't even see his face at super micro and
ultimately led to a million more views just by switching out that thumbnail. Okay,
let's do the next one, which is Christina Smallhorn. She does real estate focuses on
tiny homes. She was also in my book and she's an original jump starter. What I
want to share with you once you start understanding the changes that you need to
make on YouTube and especially in a speedboat approach or a ocean liner approach is
it's all about timing, but it's also going with your gut and really being willing
to say, do you know what? That didn't work and try something different. So Christina
has done great videos and really focus in on things. And she did a video where she
was trying to tell people never to buy this type of land to put your tiny home
on. And so ultimately she did this thumbnail right here. So tiny home, she shows as
well, don't enter. Okay, okay, epic kind of land. That was okay,
and it did okay on there. However, she decided it was underperforming. What if I
did a complete juxtaposition? What a juxtaposition is, is like show an amazing piece
of property and grab their attention, have them look at the title, what would that
do? So you can see right here, it was way underperforming, and she switched out her
thumbnail. Okay, not her title. Her titles absolutely never buy this type of land
and switched out her thumbnail to this, and ultimately people would see this,
grabs their attention, don't buy this And then they're like, why can't I buy that
land? What's wrong with that land? It looks pristine. It looks amazing. Curiosity
gets the click. They clicked on it. And you can see right here, that's where all
the video views actually came from. Now, what's interesting, I'm going to show you
this right here, is you can see that the big bulk of those 100 ,000 views came
right after she decided to do a very cool strategy, a smart strategy, which is a
juxtaposition. So this right here is why we make data -driven decisions. If it's
underperforming, let's think outside of the box. That's the jump starter way. And
sometimes it's like, well, what if we did this? That's the result that you get when
you know your data, you know your baselines, and you're willing to test things and
ultimately see better improvement. And that's what we're trying to do. It's really
trying to get it so that it takes off. So that is the speedboat approach to really
analyzing your content. We only do speedboat approaches on things that we can change,
which is title and thumbnails. And you know my rule, 90 % of the times we do
thumbnails, I would rather have three thumbnails prepared to switch out when I need
to and then do Santiago's approach of really refreshing older thumbnails. You're going
to give you a lot more video views. And if we know what works on suggestion better
than what works on browse. Let's change that out. And then ultimately, too, look at
creative strategies like what Christina was doing, which is maybe doing some
juxtaposition. Something's not working. Let's try something radical and see what it
can do. And that right there will lead to YouTube success. So to reiterate about
how important it is to adjust, it's all about doing it quick when you need to do
it quick and doing it slow when you need to do it slow. And that ocean liner
versus the speedboat approach is really important, but two, we gotta keep the
fundamentals of what I was teaching you in this system. And I wanna give you a
perfect example of doing a speedboat approach in the right time and really knowing
what's going on here. So we are here in a jump starters page, Bikes and Beards. He
had some massive growth in the last little bit. He actually had a really great
video with a bucket. So let's go ahead and click on this video right here.
through suggestion. So he bought a brand new 40 year old Honda. Now,
this is doing everything we wanted to do, was bringing in a new audience. He has
11 ,000 new subscribers that were coming in just from this video. People are loving
it. This is great. So the jump starter way is to give a little breathing room and
then release another video, right? So let's go ahead and look at the approach that
Sean did here. He did a little bit of breathing room, okay, you notice, and he
kept a couple keywords that were close. So Honda, this is like the 40 -year -old
Honda right here. This is a Honda, so we had a little bit of similarity, but not
so much, you know, it's not the same bucket. And you can see that this is the
moment that he actually got the most views on his channel in probably a long period
of time. Let's look at it for the 365 days. It is the most views that ever got
in a day that was actually happening because of this strategy. Okay. And this is
knowing the channel jumpstart system. This is knowing the channel jumpstart way. But
more importantly, it's releasing the next video. Now, this is where I want you guys
to really, really dig deep in. And this is where we need to adjust. So Sean
actually released this video. He had a different title that was like 1983 Honda or
whatever and he was totally missing a huge part of the channel jumpstart system so
let me kind of reiterate that when we actually have a bucket the key words need to
say the same so if if it's fill in the blank is is really important okay that
fill in the blank is really important what is the fill in the blank well it's the
new 40 -year -old Honda the new 40 -year -old Honda now when he did this title it
didn't have that he actually did
is it has a tendency to recommend so much more. So breaking this down, coming to
this, when I saw this, I'm like, oh, this is great. He has a video that's
performing, but then I noticed that the title was off. So I reached out to him and
says, hey, do you know what? You need to change your title. You need to change
your title right there and make it this. And I gave him what the title should be.
And it basically had that new 40 -year -old Honda in in the title. Now, I want you
to take a look at this. Let's go to reach here. But look at the click 3 -8, 5 .7.
Look at when we changed the title. Okay. So it was dropping down and it went back
up. Now, the reason why I went back up was because that correlation data that we
were talking about here is that in the bucket system, we kept the same keywords,
you know, 40 -year -old Honda, or new 40 -year -old Honda, and that's where it's
starting to recommend more. So that click -through rate actually went up because we
changed the title, which the title should have been this way from the beginning. We
would have had a higher click -through -rate. We actually would have had more
momentum, but the momentum wasn't necessarily lost completely because you can see
right here, the click -through -rate went up, but also the views went up. So this is
where I really want you to dive deep into understanding the quick approaches to
modifying your videos in
that keeps the videos so it will suggest and you'll actually bring up more
clickability but also more of use. So I hope you really understand this. It is
something that I want every jump started to do and really to understand where your
baseline's at. So make sure you follow your baselines and then ultimately have
multiple thumbnails ready, different variations. And then if you need to, make sure
you get that title changed if that's something that you need to do. As you get
more clickability, it goes out to more people. As it goes out to more people, you
get more views. That's how you actually grow. So doing the speedboat approach is
always titles and thumbnails. And I'd encourage you to do it at the right time and
really knowing the process. So this is kind of a muscle that I want you to develop
as a jump starter. So in the next training, we're going to actually go through the
ocean liner approach, really dig deep in the things that we need to change over the
long period of time, the small tweaks that lead to the big peaks.

PT4

Hey, jump starters. We are ready to jump right in and really cover a really
important topic, which is adjusting the ocean liner way. Now, we talked about that
earlier in the previous training of the speedboat versus ocean liner. I cannot stress
how important this section is, especially this specific video, of really making the
right type of adjustments. Now, what we're trying to do is make small tweaks that
will lead to big peaks. Now, those small tweaks are things that you're going to do
over a period of time. It's not really abrupt. It's not really quick. As you gather
the data, it's going to help you make the right decisions to know how to course
correct over time and make really, really smart moves instead of quick moves.
Now, I'm going to go through this in detail. You're going to have a really good
understanding of what I'm talking about here. But ultimately, this is something that
all creators need for long -term sustainability on the platform. And I've been around
for a very long time. I've seen creators come and go. And I found that a lot of
creators self -sabotage their channels because they're making very rash, quick decisions
that creates a ripple effect or a domino effect that literally inhibits their growth.
Now, as a jump starter, I want you to make very smart decisions of how to improve
your content, knowing who's watching your content, and how they're engaging with it,
and then use your creativity and where you want to go to make sure that we're
actually making that path and going to the right direction. Now, what we're going to
do is head over to the computer. I'm going to show you how to make these small
tweaks over the period of time that will lead to Big Pete's and more importantly,
long -term sustainability on the platform. So we're here at the computer and for me,
it's really important that you look at every little aspect when it comes to
adjusting your course as a content creator. Now, this first example is an example
that you probably wouldn't see otherwise. We're using data to really come across and
help us us something that's really critical in our content strategy, but it's really
outside the box. And I want to explain this because I think this is a great
example to start first. I met a jump starter. His name's Myron. And he goes on
stage and he presents to thousands and thousands of people. And he's been very
successful presenting on stage and really helping people in their lives. And first
off, I met him and totally fell in love with his story and who he is and really
his character. And so when he actually says, I want to be a jump starter and he
literally wrote me a check right there because he didn't want to leave until he was
a part of my mentoring program, I was able to go in and start looking at his
content. And I want to show you right here on his channel. This is when Myron and
his team came into Channel Jumpstar, and you can see His channel was somewhat
performing at 43 ,000 views within a couple months and ultimately he wanted to really
start growing. Now, this is where it all hits for me. As I started to looking at
his content and started to see things that he was releasing, I noticed that there
was a disconnect. And let me show you where that's at. Let's just go fast forward
one month. And that's really, really important to see this. Check this out. So fast
forward one month, let me go right here. You can see they started to release a
video and I started watching it and I started seeing the content for the content
what it was and what it wasn't. And I noticed that there was something missing. I
noticed that the Myron that I see in the videos wasn't the Myron that I saw on
stage. And so for me, I said, look, if you really, really want to grow, we need
the Myron we get on stage because when Myron is on stage and he's performing, he's
able to almost anticipate the viewer. He's able to really connect to the viewer.
And ultimately, that's the Myron we need to see on YouTube. Now, this is the
biggest mistake that a lot of content creators make, especially if they're making
content and have audiences elsewhere on YouTube, is they feel like they can repurpose
things. You know, they repurpose and put it on YouTube and it just doesn't hit the
same way. And for me, when I was seeing this content, it was great, but I could
tell that there was like this magic that was missing and I knew exactly what it
was. So the hypothesis was what if we actually gave Myron an audience?
What actually would happen in the video or a live stream when he actually add to
perform. And let's fast forward one more month. I encourage them to do a small
tweak, which was do a live stream. I want to Myron on a live stream and actually
go through the process of what he was going to teach in that series. So let's go
ahead and do that. Let's just go one month. You can see that's when they released
the video. Okay. And you can see immediately he got a ton of subscribers coming in,
okay, from this one video right here, okay? So in one day, he was able to get
almost 30 ,000 new subscribers off of a live stream. He did not promote it to his
list. He did not push it out any other way. YouTube was just doing what YouTube
does, which is really identifying the audience. And then ultimately, Myron does what
he does best, which is perform on stage. And so that's where the growth happen
right here. You look at this right here. So you have this massive growth right
here, okay, the highest day that they ever had when it came to content strategy on
YouTube. Now, this is where it gets really interesting. Because of the content,
because of YouTube, really defining who the viewer is and what they do next, take a
look at this growth. So let's just go out one more month, just so that we have
the full picture of what a month looks like, look at that growth right here. So
the highest that he's ever had, but ultimately look at how many subscribers that are
going on here. So he was gaining 87, let's even go back, let's go back where this
date right here is just May, so you can see this, 81 ,000 subscribers that happened
from May to June 26th. And when you really start breaking it down was these live
streaming strategies of him connecting with his viewer. And you can see right now it
just, it really hit a very high level because Myron was doing what Myron does best
as a content creator. He had to perform to an audience. When it's a live audience,
it's there. So when he records videos now, he'll actually do it on a Zoom call
where he actually has to perform and really interact with people. And he has to
have that feedback so that he knows how to adjust his content really hit to his
audience. You can see this growth is massive. Now, I want to go into this specific
video, and I want to show you exactly what's going on, just so that you have a
really good understanding of what I'm talking about. So this is the live stream that
actually took off. Why evil people are rich is in the thumbnail,
but why are so many God's people broke. Okay. So that right there is something that
he's talked about for years. That's what his channels about. And ultimately he did
this. Now, if you look, there wasn't a lot of growth right here until about seven
days in. And then it starts to go up and up and up. And you can still, to this
day, it's getting a ton of different views. All that are coming from browse feature
and other YouTube features. And what YouTube's doing is really promoting this. This
is because it was the right type of piece of content and it was really connecting
to the right type of viewer. But more importantly, Myron as the content creator was
hitting on all cylinders. He was really be able to create on a level that he can
connect. And you can see this actually is continuing to grow. Now, look at the
chat. People are engaging. He was able to see it in real time and really amplify
some specific points that would really engage with an audience. But more importantly,
when you come back down to you, you can see the concurrent viewers was kept on
going up until he quit the live stream. So you can see that YouTube was really
promoting this thing. Now, when you look at the key moments right here, it might
not look like anything. There's only nine minutes, 22 seconds on a 46 minute video.
But what's really important is when you really look at what YouTube's doing right
now, it's using it as a gathering point. You can see that 24 ,000 subscribers came
from this video. And what the video does next, let's just kind of go into our
advanced mode, click right here and go to the average view per viewer. You can see
it's 1 .3, so it's just normal, right? Because this is one that they're coming in
on and then they're watching next. But what's more importantly is let's look at the
subscribers lost. He lost subscribers that about 407 subscribers from this,
but gained a lot more. I mean 18 ,860. Now, those other subscribers lost wasn't
necessarily connecting to what he was doing right now, which is really connecting
with the audience and this new audience, this new approach is something that YouTube
is looking to promote. And you can see right now, based off of this and let's go
back to this specific section he was getting more and more subscribers and views
coming from it and as these live streams start to hit you can see that's where
that's one small tweet led to a pattern of success by understanding hey live streams
need to be in our content strategy play so the next thing that we want to look at
is you know what is our content strategy based on the people that are actually
subscribing to us and actually watching our videos. And so let me give you the
example again in Les Fringes. So we come here to advanced mode and basically what I
want to see is in the last 90 days. I want to see what's actually happening on
our channel right now. And we can see that we have momentum on that video that we
just discussed about the biggest scams in Paris. We understand that's bringing a new
viewership. But what we need to do is go and see which one's the highest.
category unless we want to look for that relationship data. And so here we have
one, two, three, four, five or so. And I've already grouped them together.
Let's go ahead and go to the group, most subscribed. I put the top seven most
subscribed. And I want to look at what they have in common. First one is biggest
tourist scams. Second one, 12 amazing Paris street foods and cheap Eats, then five
best restaurants in Paris, also 12 essential Paris travel tips.
And let's, I got to see this in subscribers. I want to see which ones are the
gangs here. Okay, 2 ,000, 1700, 1600, 1 ,200, 1 ,200, okay,
best bakeries, street food, and cheap eats, which is good. It looks like you have a
good bucket there. It looks like here's 12 and then 10. And then also another
places to stay and so on. So basically the channel is an insiders look at Paris,
all the things that you want to know and go from a local perspective. That's what
I would say the value proposition is. And looking at the full subscriber gain, so
let's go ahead and compare this to the channel itself. Very curious on the side by
side. So 21 ,000 subscribers gained the last 90 days, 9 ,000 of them off of seven
videos. And so that's actually pretty important here. And so I look at this and I
can already see a couple issues that I had fixed. Number one is the naming
structure that you have. I know that we went into it a little bit about doubling
down on a bucket. But when you do listicles, we need to stay common with the
listicals. Five, let's just say five, 10, 15, 20. Okay, if that's what you do,
that's probably what I would do because that's the most common ones that are used
on YouTube and you can get recommended for other people that are using it. Using 12
or 9 wouldn't necessarily hit the same, but if you want to do that, just be
consistent in it. So it's like we have 12 amazing paris street foods and then we
have 5 here and then we have 12 here, we have 10 here. We have nine here. We
have 10 here. Like, just pick one. Like, I don't care if it's like smaller ones or
five, bigger ones are 10. The biggest ones are 15. That's your increments.
Or if they're 12, just stay with 12. Don't do 10. Do 12. Okay, if that's your
thing, do your thing. I just know that you'll get more views coming from things
that are a little bit more common. And that will actually come through suggested. So
I would always say five, 10, 15, and if you want to go as high as 25,
that's fine. Ultimately, I can see that listicles work really well for you. And then
two, the five best restaurants in Paris, where locals eat. Let me pick on that one
a little bit. The five best. Why don't you just say five best? Let's shorten it up
a little bit. That's great. It's an easy way to do it. Now, you don't necessarily
need to fix it. I think just moving forward, that's what I would fix. Because this
can be a bucket where it could be five best pastries or desserts in Paris where
locals eat, five best whatever, you know, bars in Paris, you know, where locals
drink. You know, you can go all the deep in there because the fill in the blank
would be where restaurants are at. And you can break it down breakfast. You could
do lunches. You could do coffee, the best coffee in Paris where locals drink.
You could go into, you know, beer and all that other stuff, you can get very
specific, and yet it's the same type of video. So you just five best fill in the
blank in Paris where locals fill in the blank. That's it. That's that simple. And
the great thing about it is it's never ending. And if you do it right,
it can always suggest other things. So it's like, yeah, here's the best restaurants,
but here's the best place to get, you know, a croissant, you know, or whatever that
is. Like you can go very, very in detail. And then two, you can really focus in
on different aspects of Paris that you haven't necessarily done if you just stay all
too broad. Okay, so that being said, let me go back into the advanced mode here.
And let's go back to our group, which is most subscribers. This is something I like
to understand who the viewer is and what they find valuable. So when I look at it,
I want to go to viewer age.
that's just off, right? And so what I mean by that is, you know, when we group it
like this, it's kind of hard to see where that's at. So I'm going to open up a
new tab right here. And I'm going to just, I'm going to just go back in here. And
I'm going to go a little bit deeper into something because I think this right here
will help us truly understand. I'm going to go ahead and hit analytics here. And
then we're going to deep dive into this one real quick. Okay.
So what we're going to do is look at viewer age here. So we can see that as a
whole, when I come to the most subscribed, and we come to viewer age, you only
have 9 .6 of your viewerships coming from millennial.
However, this video right here, this is your number one. It's like complete opposite
of everything else. So it's like 12 amazing Paris street foods and cheap eats,
okay? So the question is, is that's hitting a younger audience and why is that?
Well, is it because it's cheap eats, people are looking for a discount and also the
people in this realm that they're not necessarily doing it. They're just looking for
where to go and experience Paris. That's what we need to keep in mind. So for me,
I'm going to validate this, right? So I'm going to go ahead and copy this real
quick. And I'm going to compare. We're going to hit a new group. And I'm going to
hit Street and Cheap Eats because I know you had a couple of those. Okay. And
we'll hit Save. And I'm going to go ahead and now add it right here to see if it
does exactly what we think. Okay, so That one video is different than this one.
So this one hit differently than your other one. So you can see it skewed more
older, more Gen X and also Boomer.
But the previous one didn't. Why did one respond differently than the other?
You want to know why? You want to know what I see? Well, look at the thumbnail.
So the thumbnail right here, you can see there's no face on it. It just shows the
food. It responded really well to a younger demographic, right? Now, even though the
video is the same, you just kind of go in and says, hey, we're looking for that.
Let me go back into the other line, because the other one, believe or not,
responded differently. Even though it was the same, even though there's the same
concept and it was hitting differently, you can see right here, you had your face
on it or the face.
viewer, they're the same, even with the different demographics. I don't think that
they're doing this wrong. I think the creator does appeal to both demographics
because there's finding value. The value is those hidden gyms that you're trying to
find in Paris. And so it does appeal to all ages. But we just now know we have
an hypothesis right now. If we do street food and cheap eats, if we just show the
picture of some amazing food, is it going to skew younger? And so that's kind of
something that we need to take into consideration. And then, too, I want to go in
to see, you know, is the retention the same? Like I think at the end of the day,
is the retention the same? So it's a little bit lower than normal, okay, and let's
go to the last one. Okay, so we're going to look at this one a little bit deeper
and look at the retention. And you can see it's within typical. So knowing that
it's hitting a different audience, you might say, oh, this one didn't perform as
high as well, but you're hitting a different demographic. Like that other one was
hitting the millennials and this one's hitting more your age demographic.
And so we know just having a different thumbnail is bringing in a different type of
audience. Now, that being said, I'm not opposed at hitting both. I just want you to
be aware of when you use a certain type of thumbnail that it's going to respond
differently, especially for this topic. Now, that being said, that's a hypothesis that
we're actually making. And then basically we need to go a little bit deeper into
validating that. Now, one of the things that I found is when we're actually deep
diving into this content is that we always want to dig deep. We always want to go
deeper. That's why the power of groups are so important. You can see that we did
the most subscribed, the best performing. And then I started to break it down into
what I believe are verticals within the channel itself. Paris travel tips,
places to visit in Paris, hotel reviews, street food Paris, restaurant reviews,
and ultimately you can break each specific vertical that's within that. And what we
want to do is understanding the viewer, the viewer is coming into Paris and they
want to have the full Paris experience and they want to go to places where only
the locals can experience or things that they that are just kind of off the beaten
path. And so having that in mind and knowing how to respond to our audience and
what we're looking for is the best way to understand our content strategies. So that
being said, when I come back down to it, I look at the ones that are bringing in
the most views right now. and those are the ones that I would actually want to
create buckets for because this would be where they eat. So that's an eat bucket,
eat bucket, travel bucket. So it's travel essentials. Eat bucket, eat bucket, places
to stay. So you have locations and you have your scams and so on, but ultimately
it's all about experiencing the eateries, right? So I would even go granular on
that, like I said before, where you're going into the best desserts or five best
desserts in this part of Paris or by the Eiffel Tower. Like that's another thing I
think a lot of people miss is like you hit Paris, but you're like, here's the five
best cafes by the Eiffel Tower. Boom. You know that the majority of people that are
coming to Paris for the first time are going to go to the Eiffel Tower. And that
would be something that you need to look at. And you can say, oh, buy this
specific monument or whatever, or by the Louvre. You know, I think you can get very
specific on that. And then you can get granular on best desserts, best breakfasts,
best type of croissant, you know, and you can go deeper and deeper. So that is the
content strategy on this channel. And ultimately what we would do is continue to
gather the data and group them so we can see how it responds and who is responding
to. And then once we understand, oh, you know, if this responds more to this
younger audience doesn't make it wrong if we get the retention, we get the views
and we get the subscribers that they're coming from because they're finding value,
just knowing if we add the thumbnail, it's going to respond differently across the
board. The most important thing about the channel jumpstart system is the viewer,
because like if we can really understand who the viewer is, what they find valuable,
and predict what they want to watch, we're really in line with what the YouTube
algorithm does, and YouTube will actually go and find that audience for us. And I
think all of us struggle in this way at different times. And I think some of you
will find this next example of the ocean liner approach really important for you to
make the right type of decisions. Now, this example is a YouTuber had been on
YouTube for six years, uploaded 1 ,600 videos. That's right. I didn't stutter.
1600 videos. and they were consistently getting the same amount of views.
And some of the views would actually come in, they'd get a little bit of momentum,
and it was off of a video, and yet they didn't know how to capitalize on it. Now,
that being said, you can actually use buckets and really dig deep on this specific
type of content, but ultimately there was like a fragment of viewership that was
actually happening on the channel and not the viewer that was watching some content
would like all the content. So as they were uploading all this content, they didn't
really have a very solid content strategy. However, their goal was to actually sell
their cookbook that they've had for the last 20 years and sales would come in.
And so they were like, okay, you know, YouTube's just kind of that generator to the
cells. Now, that being said, this is where we entered the picture. So let's go
ahead and take a look. This is Living on a Dime. And you can see that ups and
downs, you know, some video views were really high on certain videos,
but they're just kind of hammering and hammering out the content. Now, I think a
lot of people would be satisfied with this. And for me, it was like really
understanding where they're at and also what type of viewers would respond really
well with certain type of content. And it was like you're giving some videos out
here that work for some people and here for some people and here for some people.
And ultimately there wasn't really anything the algorithm can get behind to say,
here's the ideal viewer for these types of videos. And so this is what happened
next. I want to basically show you. I'm going to go out one month and we're going
to hit this right here, we'll just go out one month. And you can see right now
they have this huge increase. Okay, this huge increase. They basically found a topic
that was trending. They found a topic that was completely different than their other
content because their other content was about recipes and cooking for less. This one
actually did more for preparedness and their content started to increase.
And they knew what to do. I mean, they followed up on it. They did a couple other
videos. And you can see the growth factor that actually was going on. I mean, this
is literally the highest that they've ever had any of their content on their channel
at this time. And ultimately,
they reached out to me. They were freaking out a little bit. And they wanted to
know how to capitalize on it and I was explaining to them that their audience has
shifted and now we need to focus in on more the preparedness side of things and
really, you know, looking for the discounts and deals and the things that you should
consider for the preparedness. Now, that being said, they had 1 ,600,
600 videos that they've created about recipes and cookbooks and so on and so forth.
And that kind of went into a direction they didn't want to go. And then we go out
one more month, just so you can see this. And you can see that this was doing
everything we want it to do. It increased the baseline. And basically they said, oh,
the momentum's actually happening very consistently that we can actually start doing
some of our older videos. And also when we do those older videos, that will bring
the same type of views. They're going to like the older type of videos. So they
actually did a couple recipe videos. Let me show you this right here. And I'm going
to just go just not a couple weeks after that. And you can see that the video
pretty much went down almost to the baseline. So you can see right here, went back
down to the original baseline. And they would have missed this opportunity if they
didn't do the ocean liner approach. And the ocean liner approach was really shifting
a content strategy in the way to really grow. And so you can see,
you know, I've seen this graph so many times on different channels, and I've seen
it happen over and over and over again where they've made a shift in the content
and have a video or two come out, they have this huge growth, and then they don't
capitalize on it. They go back to the old way of doing things. And so when we
really look at it, this right here was a different audience. And this audience was
really finding value in the way that the content creator was actually delivering it.
And they would stay on the content longer. And they would also watch more videos.
And so that's kind of the indicator that I'm looking for here. And so having the
approach when I talked to them, I says, look, you're not a recipe channel anymore.
You are a preparedness channel and you need a really cater content to that.
Now, that being said, I can tell you that a lot of people would freak out and
say, hey, that's not what I signed up for. But realistically, the type of content
they were doing was in that same vein of, you know, making do with less,
you know, being prepared on X, Y, or Z with just minimal types of ingredients for
recipes.
over there, or do we do a speedboat approach, right? And so the speedboat approach
would have been ultimately just disregarding everything that goes on the channel,
like literally taking off every video that's non -related and going down this new
direction. That's not a wise thing to do. The wise thing to do is you have all
this traffic coming in. It could appeal to the new content, but Ultimately,
we got to, you know, kind of look in to see what's actually happening here. Now,
long story short, I'm going to go ahead and do this a couple more months out.
Let's just do this to 2022. And let's go to April.
And you can see right here. Okay, so they decided, okay, we're going to start
creating a bucket that's along this line of preparedness. preparedness. We're going to
go a little bit more in depth on it. You can see the growth that actually happened
until they started phasing out some of their older buckets because it wasn't
performing up to this vein. Now, this is where I want to show you. I think this
is where I think all of you really need to look at it. Not all the content's the
same. And so let's go to the advanced mode. And I want to basically compare a
couple things here. Let's go ahead and I want to compare
preparedness and we got 13 videos here and we want to compare it to recipes and I
want to give it um let's give it a little bit of depth here so you can see
preparedness let's go um let's go the last 90 days let's do 22 that that'd be fine
I think we can do 22 on both of those and let me go a little bit deeper on on
this. Okay, so not even remotely in the same, you know, stratosphere here,
but what I want to do is go to viewer age. I want to show you this one thing.
This right here is really telling, right? So there's a lot of, a lot of things
that we look at. We look at the psychographics, what they do online, offline, but
recipes, it was like really skewing millennial. And You had huge millennial audience
right here for the recipes, but the preparedness was actually hitting with Gen X and
also boomers. And so when you look at that, it's like totally hitting a different
audience when it comes from the type of content. So someone that was interested in
the recipe, not only wasn't interested in the other content, but it was in a very,
very high skewed demographic. And so what do you do with this content? That's when
they actually started a new YouTube channel, just started uploading the recipes there,
and ultimately that channel started to explode. But I want to go back to the point
that I'm getting at is sometimes we have the misconception of what our content is
and not. And they really didn't want to move from recipes because their bread and
butter was that recipe book, that cookbook. And they thought that if we didn't talk
about recipes, that it would actually miss the cells and the stuff from there.
But they sold more books now than ever before because they have a bigger audience
that's actually interested in that type of content. And I think it's spurring on
other ideas that they can actually capitalize and sell more books. So they sold more
books because of their audience shifted. And then ultimately, this is the audience
that they actually connect with. And you can see just off of the view content, this
alone, 2 .2 million views versus 71. And so it's like, why wouldn't you want to do
that? Like, why wouldn't you want to go a little bit more in depth? And so as
you're making the decisions of what to do and how to course correct, you really
need to be in line with who's actually watching the content, and what do they
actually find valuable? Because like someone that's a millennial is not going to find
the same value in preparedness as someone that's a Gen Xer or a Boomer. And it's
just because of the psychological triggers. Most millennials haven't really endured,
you know, what Boomers did. I mean, boomers went through World War II and some
really tough times in the 70s with a recession and all these issues that was going
on. And then two, Gen Xers are just, they've been through a lot, too. And so it's
just like, okay, that being said, they have different things that they would find
valuable. And ultimately, the content's not the same. And you're splitting the
audience. And so why post videos that wouldn't necessarily be more for the ones that
would actually consume more, consume longer, pay more money, and buy more cookbooks.
That's why they shifted their strategy there. So we've given very specific examples
of what you can do. And I think what I need to do now is show you holistically,
helicontic creator was about on the verge to give up because they really hated the
content that they were making. They know that they needed to pivot and they know
that they needed to pivot the right way. But they were very afraid of losing their
audience and their money. And so they had to take a ocean liner approach to gain
the confidence that they needed to start modifying their content. So I actually have
a video right below this. It's an interview that I did with Hope Scope. She's a
YouTuber and has an amazing story of how she did the ocean liner approach of
shifting her content strategy. And you can see all the results of the success that
she's actually having right now. So I want you to watch that full interview because
there's so much depth that you can actually gain from it. Now, I know some of you
probably already seen it, but I want you to watch it again because we're going to
actually dive a little bit deeper in the next section on some principles that I
actually shared with her along her journey of her ocean liner approach pivot to her
content strategy. So I definitely want you to watch this. This is like by far the
best interview when it comes to really understanding the ocean liner approach. I
don't want you to skip it. I want you to take notes because those notes are going
to be extremely valuable in the upcoming training that we actually have in the next
module. We'll see on the next one.

PT5

Hey, jump starters. We are ready to jump right in and really start talking about
the most important thing about the channel jumpstart system. And it's the core of
everything that we do. And ultimately, we're trying to make good decisions, data
-driven decisions, and we're trying to plan, execute, analyze, and adjust, and we
really take that method. But ultimately, there is the core of the system that we
can't necessarily neglect and we need to really truly understand. And the core of
that is the viewer. But more importantly, the viewer's journey. See, when we actually
look at the viewer, you know, we're only looking probably at one video. But when
we're looking at the viewer's journey, that actually translates into a content
strategy, okay, because you're going to have multiple videos that go from there. And
you know how I dug deep into the algorithm and we talked about the AI that
controls YouTube. And every traffic source has an algorithm and bots that really have
specific things that they're looking for. And really, all they're trying to do is
predict what people want to watch, give them what they want to watch, and have them
stay on the platform longer. That's the two goals of YouTube. I don't see that ever
shifting because, you know, if they predict what people want to watch on the
platform, they're going to stay on YouTube longer. They're going to stay on YouTube
longer. YouTube makes more money. So very simple on that. But for us,
a really understanding the channel jump start system, it's all about the viewer, but
it's all about the viewer's relationship with our data, which is our videos, and the
path that we get them a deeper relationship with us as content creators. Now, I
think all of you realize that I'm not the biggest fan of search engine optimization
on YouTube. You know, I've said that over and over and over again. And I think
people are thinking, oh, this magic title will solve all our problems here on
YouTube. We'll outrank everything. And for me, we truly need to understand that
people come on YouTube at different times for different things. And if we can
actually understand the viewer's journey, that will help us better understand how to
capitalize on that view. Because at the end of the day, that's all we're trying to
do is capitalize on that view to get them deeper into our content. Let me give you
the perfect example of this. And I think this is something that we can all
understand. We know that YouTube is used for search. My mom will go and search
things on YouTube and try to figure out what's actually happening and things that
she needs to learn to kind of repair her house even though that she has a lot of
sons she just thinks oh you know what i just i can do this easier i can find the
tutorial on youtube and go from there now that type of relationship is when
someone's seeking out your content and they click on it there should be a viewer's
journey from that moment and i think a lot of us get so pigeonhole and we're like
have her blinders on is the video the video the video that we miss the video's
concept of how they can go from one video to multiple videos that's where we
actually have the content strategy of what video should they watch next and so
whenever I know for a fact that there are a high probability of this video being
found on YouTube search I try to figure out what video to release next.
And the most important thing is I usually release that video prior to releasing the
video in search. Because if I establish it there, it doesn't really come up in
search. But when I release the next video in search, I actually have a video to
tie to as my target video for them to click on at the end of the end screen.
I put it in the card. I put it in the description and put it in the first
comment and I create this data relationship and ultimately that should translate over
to the next up if I've done my job, right? And really making sure that, you know,
the highest probability of someone watching this video will watch to this next one.
And so we have to give some forethought into it. And I think as content creators
on YouTube, we tend to only be so focused in on the content, the video itself that
we don't see the full strategy. We don't look at the very important things, which
is the viewer's journey along of going deeper and deeper and binge watching all our
content. So every traffic source needs to have a different journey. So with search,
you're going to do a different journey this way than you would for browse feature.
Why? Because it's a completely different viewing experience. And I think this is
where a lot of people miss the mark, especially those that are actually teaching
about YouTube. I think they miss the mark over and over again, because when I
actually come to YouTube, I might be watching YouTube in a certain way. I might be
watching it on my phone. I may be watching on my big screen. I might be watching
it at work. And how I consume YouTube is different. And why I consume YouTube is
different. And that's the psychology that we're trying to get into and understand
from the viewer, and then ultimately helping them view more and more content.
Now, one of the biggest examples of this when we actually understand the viewer's
journey is understanding the value of the video, but also the value of the channel,
which is the content strategy, right? Now, this one question I get a lot from a
lot of YouTubers and also jump starters, which is, how long should my video be,
Darrell? And for me, it's all about the viewer's journey and the viewers experience
in the process. And so it's all about the viewer's retention and making sure that
you provide that value that we talked about in section four and section five. That's
really, really important. But for here, for this section right here, is that viewer's
journey just doesn't stop with one video. It goes on to multiple videos because our
whole goal is shifting a viewer from a viewer, a unique viewer to an active viewer.
And from an active viewer to a loyal viewer. That's what we're trying to do here.
And getting them to watch and consume more content is the best way for that. Now,
let me just give you an example of this. Let's just say that you have a video
that's bringing you 1 ,000 views every day in search, right? And that's going to hit
over and over and over again because you know that, hey, that search volume is
going to be there. It's predictable. People are always going to be searching for it.
If you have good ranking, you're going to get that 1 ,000 views. Well, the whole
thing about it is let's take that 1 ,000 views over seven days. Okay, seven days
you'll have 7 ,000 views on that video. Now, what if you actually had a really good
video that follows up with that searched video and you had only 3 % of the people
click it at the very end? Okay, 3%. 3%, not very big, but you have 3%,
but 3%, it's actually high. Three percent is telling YouTube, hey, these people that
watched the end of the video of the 7 ,000, three percent of them clicked on this
video. Now, what's going to be interesting is that video that they clicked on is
actually going to show up in browse feature, a different traffic source. Okay,
that's that YouTube homepage and subscription feed because of what the people did.
So if they subscribed, they're going to have a high probability of seeing that other
video in the subscription feed. If they didn't subscribe that they just watched or
they subscribed and watched, it's going to show up on homepage. And based on the
clip through rate of that and also getting that hit rate, which is the success rate
of people watching the video, you're going to actually see that video tied even
deeper with that content. And I've seen channel shift from a search only channel to
a browse and suggested channel that's not even using search. Search is not even the
top five, but they were able to shift that because they've been able to really
understand the viewer's journey and then YouTube goes out and finds the viewers for
them. And then that way, you know, they're coming in through browse and suggested,
but ultimately binge watching the content. And so at the end of the day, we're
going to deep dive into the viewer's journey. And I'm going to give you some
examples over here on the computer. So to really give you the perfect example about
a viewer's journey, I want to kind of dig deep on one of the most important
essentials of really growing on YouTube. And we've mentioned this over and over and
over again, which is all about the viewer. And we went in depth on the
psychographics, the demographics, what they do online, what they do offline, to try
to understand the dynamics of the viewer so that we can actually make valuable
content for them. And then in Section 7, we're looking at the data of how the
viewers actually respond to our content and seeing what they love through the data
and what they don't love through the data. And that's where we're analyzing and
adjusting, where we say, oh, we're going to cut out the things that we assume that
they don't like to see if we can get better attention or get a higher click rate.
Or we're doing more of this as an idea to bring in more engagement and or views.
So that's kind of the thing that we always look at.
of understanding the psychographics of your audience and how to leverage on the
psychographics of your audience to translate into your goal. So we're gonna jump
right into the French chick expert and Marianne actually loves what she does.
She loves to give fashion tips to women to have them feel and look better. And I
wanna go through the data. So what Marianne, She was basically one of the people
that come on for advanced training and we went way in depth. And I actually
continue on with more advanced training once you understand the system after the 12
weeks that you can go in depth and we can all learn together. If you want
information about that, just contact Justin after you watch this video or something
like that. But basically we take and start analyzing channels and really trying to
understand who's watching the content and the value proposition that you're bringing
as a content creator. And so for her channel, she said, you know what? My audience
are women and we're making them look and feel good. That's basically the essence
when it comes to fashion. And of course, you know, being the center of the fashion
industry, being in Paris and being in France, that's where she's at. And She's like
the French chick expert when it comes to all those great, great things when it
comes to fashion and so on. And so understanding that we wanted to dig into her
channel, and we did this on a group coaching call. And I first went to the
demographics. I want to know the demographics within a specific period of time. And
this is the demographics that I saw. 13 to 17 year olds, 0 % females. 18 to 24
year olds, 2 .7%, 0 .6 % men.
coming from. So the 55 to 65 plus is something that is basically bringing half the
traffic. If you bring it more 45 plus, I mean, that's pretty much 60 to almost 70
% of all the traffic is coming from 40 -ish on up, 45 on up. And so ultimately,
that's where that all started. And I do believe that her content strategy was geared
to that of, hey, you know, anyone that's older than 50, this is our audience of
things that you need to look. But for me, that's where I try to understand the
viewer's journey and to understand the viewer deeper. Now, a tip that I always do
is I try to find someone that would be their target demo and someone that I know
personally. And then I kind of have their personalities and and tendencies and fears
and and their confidences in certain things. I kind of see that and then I know
their friends and so on. And so I kind of try to place the real world avatar into
someone I know. And so going through Marianne's channel, I was thinking of one
person only. And it's the person that I love more than any person in the face of
the earth, which is my Uh, she's pushing 50 and I've been married to her for 25
plus years. And I, I've gotten to know that woman and I really love her to death.
And every, every day I love her even more. And so I get to hear and have
conversations with her daily. And I get to see what she's frustrated with. And so I
looked at her, uh, her life and what's going on. And so right now she's pushing 50
and she's on this buying kick of buying clothes, okay? And so she's found a service
that they actually mel you the clothes and you get to try them on and then return
the other stuff and you only pay what you buy. And then every month she selects,
oh, this is cute. I want to see it, whatever. She tries it on. She gets to keep
it. If she doesn't like it, she just returns it. And that's kind of her life. And
then my side of the closet is getting smaller and smaller and smaller because she's
adding to her her clothing accessories and I just have black shirts and that's it
it's just like okay my side getting scrunched and she's getting more more close but
there's other things that's going on in her life too she's getting gray hair so
she's worrying about her her gray hair and her appearance she's get her hair dyed
and you know all that fun stuff too and then two her body's starting to shift
She's pre -metapause.
guys go through it too. But in the case of this channel, I'm all thinking about my
wife and I'm thinking, okay, what would my wife respond to and how she would
respond to these things? And she would watch a lot of these videos. Like I think
she would get inspired from it and go from there. But what was that other
psychological trigger that would really get my wife to really click? And so I'm
thinking all about this in the consultation of someone that I know that would
respond really well with this. And then I figure out, okay, what's some commonalities
between my wife's friends and the people that are over age that would be similarly
in the same position. And there's these themes that would be those psychological
triggers that we're going to go after. So that being said, this is the data. And I
want to go over what's actually happening here on her channel. And I want to bring
it back into where we need to go and the path of the viewer, that viewer's journey
from taking a click to getting them to watch more content. So right now, I can see
that the purple line is above the blue line. And that's what we want to see is a
returning viewer is above the blue line. And the blue line every day is bringing in
new viewers. You can see every day is bringing in new viewers. When they release a
video, it's bringing in more viewers. But yet we still have that purple line that's
going up when the days go on. So she's getting a more loyal of an audience.
If the new viewers above the returning viewer, that means you don't have a loyal
audience. You might just have something that they're looking for. So like a lot of
how -to channels will be right here at the beginning until you use the channel
jumpstart system to get returning viewers in. But ultimately, you can see that people
are connecting and liking because of the data that we're seeing here. Okay. Now, I
want to go over the videos. Seven spring outfits to look attractive, okay?
Five easy outfits to look classy. So to look attractive, look classy, right? Let's
do the next one. Stylish women's always dress for success. Okay? And the next one,
seven shoe hacks every stylish woman needs to know. How to choose the right color
belt. So that's kind of the strategy. And so when we had the conversation, I'm
like, we need to get that other psychological trigger that women over the age of 45
or 50 that they're experiencing. And we may be able to use that psychological
trigger. So let's create a video that would respond in a way that will get more of
the click. So the idea was this mistake makes you look older. Okay.
So that was kind of the idea. So we had her come up with some titling and so on
and it ended up 10 style mistakes that make you look older because hey if you do
these style mistakes you look like a boomer or whatever if you want to look younger
then you need to do this so let's go forward just one month because she took that
idea based off of that that group coaching call and was able to release the video
so right here she released the video okay 10 style mistakes that make you look
older. So this is a little bit different because it's now doing a trigger is stop
doing this. You can see on the thumbnail, stop in text, and then also you have an
X mark and so on. This makes you look old, and then it also reinforces it with
that title from there. But I want to go back to the graph here and help you see
what I see. So when I see a release, you can see that when a video released, new
viewership came in and it plateaued out here and then it dropped down and then good
video here pretty much got released kicked up and we're looking at the blue line
here went for a good day and then came down okay and then released this was not a
very good video bringing in new viewers okay they didn't really care about success
this one right here shoe hacks went up a little bit and then it came down we're
kind of kind kind of flatlined on here, came up a little bit, and then came down.
So basically, that's what we're looking for. This is the one that I'm like, okay,
this is good, because a day after the release, it went up to its highest point,
and then came back down, and then the next release. So I'm using and seeing that
things are looking okay, but right here, this did something that no other video did
in this period of time. It went plateau and then it peaked at the day two. So
it's like day one, day two, and then on the day, the third day, we're seeing an
increase. So the only one that was even remotely close was this one. So this day
one, day two, and then it flatlined where this one did day one,
day two came down and then day two, I'm sorry, day three was higher than the
release day. So it's like we've seen that increase. So let's go over just a little
bit further on this. Let's just go to a few days out from release and look at
what happened here. So this increase right here, this is the moment that I knew
that something Biggs is about to happen because we actually had a convergence of the
two lines, which is returning viewers and also new viewers. and they hit this point.
And at this moment, this is where things started to happen on the channel, right?
We actually had new viewership coming in and also returning viewers going up,
but the new viewership went higher than the returning viewers. Now, let me kind of
break down the algorithm once again. And we went over algorithm training a little
bit earlier, but ultimately different traffic comes from different traffic sources, and
every traffic source has its own algorithm. And the algorithm is looking to test the
title and thumbnail to see if it can get a click. If it gets a click, that's a
hit. That's what they call it. So we want to increase the hit rate. As the hit
rate increases, YouTube will go and put it out into a larger scale, which gives you
more impressions. And so what happened right here is it released when on the
homepage. And look at blue. I only want you to look at blue. The next day,
it still went and it wasn't quite as high as about 100 less, but it still went
out. And YouTube says, oh, we're getting a high amount of people that are clicking
on it that are watching to the end of the video. And then also we have a high
amount of people that are clicking on it based on all the other competition out
there. Let's try it again. And so they went again And that, again, actually hit the
same amount of the, of views, and that ratio is really high.
So YouTube always does a small little test. They tested it. It went out, and the
test was positive, and so they were ready to open the floodgates. So they did the
same thing here. If you look right here, here, they test it. They'd go out another
day. See, went out to the same thing. that moment, it didn't, it wasn't a positive
test. So they didn't open the floodgates. And so what happened? It went down. Okay.
This one went up. Okay. So it went up dramatically. So YouTube says, let's open the
floodgates. Let's open and get more people to see this, this video because it's been
positive. And it went to the next stage of being open. It was very positive. It
went to it again, was very positive. It went to again, was very positive. So he's
seeing a huge increase. Now, let's go a couple more days out because everything
happens within a 24, 48 hours. So let's add another 48 hours to the end result
here. And you can see that YouTube went even further, went even further to getting
that out there. So he kept on adding it out because the more that added out got
more clicks. Okay, so let's do another 48 hours on top of that. And this is where
it gets really fun, guys. I'm really excited about this for her. But you can see
at that moment, it hit its pivotal moment of getting the maximum amount of people
clicking on it. Okay. So right here, when you saw a down tick, YouTube hit a
threshold, says, hey, we're still going into a broader audience, but we're going to
not put it out as much because it wasn't as high as what we thought. And so we're
going to scale it back. So it started to scale back but I want to you to
people to click on the video, and you can see they clicked on the video, but they
were starting to watch the other content. And the other content is where they would
return as a return viewer. So as the new viewers are coming in,
the new returning viewer went up too. So we can start seeing that as that went up,
it went even higher. So the highest point in all this was, I think this one right.
I guess it was this one right back here, nine, nine thousand one hundred and sixty
seven, okay? So that was the highest. Um, right here is 19 ,000. So 10 ,500 more
people watched on this day because of the momentum going in on a video.
And it's the video right here that you can see that was really moving the needle.
Okay. And we get to this highest point and YouTube was still getting it and people
were watching it and they come back to YouTube the next day or in a couple hours
or even going back to the homepage and they saw another video of Amarie's and they
watched it and that's why that returning viewership has gone up now let's go another
48 hours out well let's go let's go 72 hours out and I want to show you what
happened next so YouTube decided Okay, we hit our maximum reach on the home page at
this time. Let's start bringing it back down. But what the great thing about it is
is it comes back down, but your returning viewers isn't dipping down that much.
She's releasing new videos that's hitting with that audience, and they're liking it,
and the returning viewer ratio is staying consistent. So did we actually increase
their baseline? I hope so, but the data is looking at is we're having a high
probability of increasing that baseline and converting that new viewer into a
returning viewer and some of those returning viewers into active viewers where they're
watching multiple videos. Okay, so let's go another week out after that. And so let
me go back to
let's go, let's just go to the 28th on this one and you can see the full cycle
of it. So you can see it went up and now this is the moment where the returning
viewer gets back to its place, new viewers gets back to its place, but it's at the
highest level outside of this peak of release here. And is that the new baseline
within those parameters? It looks like it is. And you can see that we're starting
to get a huge increase and let's go even further out. Let's take this to the end
of June. Okay, so you can see that the baseline for returning viewers is increased.
Now, let me go a little bit deeper in some missteps. So the misstep in this one
would be, we had a video that's performing really well. And if we wanna break down
that video, we can. But it really responded well. And let's just go one click into
this and see half a million, pretty much half a million video views from there,
it's still bringing a lot of traffic in. And it's bringing traffic from the
demographic that's more skewed for people over 50. Okay. So it's doing everything
that we want to do. The response is really good too. And you can see it brought
in the new viewer. And then ultimately, YouTube is using this where the other
content is making people become the returning viewer. So it's doing everything we
wanted to do. Now, the interesting thing would be, let's look at how many new
subscribers. So we had 275 subscribers come from that in the last 28 days.
Let's do it from Life of the Upload. We had 4 ,718 new subscribers that hit that
subscribe button and probably watch several videos based off of this one video alone.
And so What do we need to do? Well, that's where we need to follow up with this
video.
And that's where we're adding to this bucket. So what is the bucket? Ten style
mistakes that make you look older. Well, it's mistakes that make you look older, not
necessarily style of mistakes. It's like mistakes that will make you look older is
the bucket. And so we need to change out 10 style mistakes. Now, in knowing the
channel jumpstart Sometimes we take information and says, oh, this is the bucket, but
we're not using the bucket system. So style mistakes that make you look older is,
or I'm sorry, mistakes that make you look older is the bucket. What we need to do
is have that variation, whether it's 12 style mistakes or 25 style mistakes or
whatever, or summer style mistakes that make you look older because we're going into
the summer, right? And so that's kind of what we're looking at. And you can see
that none of these videos there are actually taking that same other psychological
trigger, which is fill younger, look younger, look lighter, look like you're losing
weight or whatever. And none of them are except for this one. And it's 10 style
tricks that make you look younger. Okay, so once again, you would say, oh, this is
the bucket. Darrell, I'm doing the bucket. Well, she didn't do the bucket. Even
though it was the right time of release. This one didn't perform because it's not
the bucket. Because this is 10 style tricks that make you look younger, where this
is 10 style mistakes that make you look older. So it's a different psychological
trigger. This is what making you look older. Stop doing this to look older. And
this one, oh, do this to look younger. Even though that it's so close from the
ways that we're communicating it, it isn't. And I want every jump starter to know.
It isn't, it isn't remotely in the same stratosphere. It's a different psychological
trigger. Because looking
but the new viewers went up a little bit too on that. I think this could have
been 10 tips to hide your big tummy or hide your tummy or look thinner for women
over 50. I think that could have been a better psychological trigger on the key to
a keyword. I don't think this keyword was as powerful as the other one or these
five things will make your your waistline look thinner for people over women over 50
right and then let's go to this one so we can see right here we got some new
viewership coming in so the cool thing is is when we really start breaking this
down we're looking at what's bringing in the views and the viewer so this is about
ready to do the exact same thing that was doing over here and so now's the time
for her to actually start this same process again of hitting that same vein that
brought people in. Now, I know that some of you were probably thinking, well, Daryl,
well, she doesn't want to take a negative approach. This is a negative approach of
your stop doing this or here's the mistakes. Well, that's fine. If it brings people
in, you can see that it brought up all the other videos. It just was one of these
videos that went out to a wider net, and that's kind of where she's at here today
is getting out in that wider net. So based on what she releases up next will
depend on does the new viewership go above the returning viewer,
which we want it to do? And is that new returning viewer getting higher or staying
within the same baseline, which it is? You know, so that's where our content
strategy would be on that. So if the new viewer that YouTube's going to go after
is people that are conscientious about their weight, their style and looking older,
and our content is responding to it, why stop doing this or stop making this
mistake or whatever, we are going to see an increase. And then two, I do believe
another bucket would be things you can do to look younger. It's just a different
trigger to stop doing this to look older. It's just a different trigger. I know
that it seems pretty close to the same, but from my point of view, it's not. It's
a totally different bucket and it responds differently to it. So That's the next
bucket I'd be trying is here's five things you can do to look younger. Here's five
blouses that you can look younger or whatever it is. Like you can get very specific
on that. That's what I want to do. Now, let's go out a little bit further just so
that we have some closure on this specific case study. But you can see that new
viewership went up, but also that the baseline went up on the returning viewers.
So the more that she can bring new viewers in, her content's valuable enough to get
them to watch other videos. And so to take a look at it is this graph right here.
We love this graph. It's videos growing your audience. She has very high and high,
which is 10 style mistakes, the video that we did, that's very high to get new
viewers to return. So when they're new viewers, This is the video that brings them
in. This is the top of the funnel. And it's the new viewers who returned. This is
the video that's bringing them in. The second one is how to style your white
sneakers for women. And then 10 stylists on the budget, whatever is moderate,
moderate, moderate. And so ultimately, I like this one for a couple reasons. You can
see that this is not even remotely in the same stratosphere. But what we want to
do is in the first 24 hours. Okay. So if you look for the first 24 hours,
the number one video is a wardrobe from tablets. Okay. So you can see in the first
24 hours of release, that was the highest. And why was it the highest? Well, we
had momentum going. Remember, we had seven days of this video and it started to hit
its highest peak. And so when you release a video, YouTube's going to give the
freshness factor to put on the homepage. So as that one video was taking off from
the May first release and we had that full thing, you know, is at the highest
point of the video release, of course, this one's going to rank higher. Now, what's
interesting is when we go to the first seven days, that's not even even remotely
close on that. And look at this. Ten habits that make you look younger, bad habits
that look younger, was super high in last 10 days, or I'm sorry, in the last seven
days. And you can see this other ones there. And if we go back from the first 28
days, you know, this one's still super high, like out of everything. And so there's
a lot to learn from this. And I think the biggest thing would be, it's all about
the viewer. It's more about what the viewer loves, what they don't love, what
they're worried about, the psychological triggers, and looking for that other
psychological trigger that would appeal to that audience and the YouTube will go, oh,
I know who the audience is and go out and get more viewers. And so ultimately,
that's what we're looking at. And so to course correct, this is doing exactly what
I want to do outside of, I want to see more active viewers coming in. And as we
get momentum, that we're taking that next step of connection. And so that's what I
really am excited about, especially for this specific example, is how your content
strategy can literally change by making sure the focus is a little bit different and
maybe a little bit broader or very hitting a different vein than just fashion. Same.
Look older. Look younger. It's fine. I look thinner. Look fatter. You know, and it's
just doing either positive or negative connection to get them to click. And so
that's a really good powerful example of the viewer's journey. And it's something
that I want you to always deep dive into it to really understand what to do next.
So I've told you several times during channel jumpstart that I'm really sensitive to
traffic. Traffic is really important to understand the pulse of what's actually
happening on your channel. And then most importantly, knowing traffic and also the
viewer's journey in that traffic helps us really understand the content strategy we
need to make. Now, there's all different types of traffic sources and all of them
have different algorithms. We talked to that in detail of how YouTube actually
operates. But what I want to do here is show you an example, a practical example
of what I would do when your traffic's actually coming from search. This is Dr.
Legrand's channel. You can see that he has green arrows, which is really good. We
love jump starters with green arrows that always makes me happy. You can tell that
he's not getting a ton of views every day, about 1 ,000 views, 1 ,300 to 1 ,300
views per day. And so ultimately, let's go see where this traffic is coming from.
So we come to content down here, how viewers find your videos. 63 .5 % is coming
from search, 10 .6 % is coming from browse feature, 6 .2, 4 .4,
4 .4 and 10 % down here from others. And so for me, we know that,
yes, search is coming in. Ultimately, I want to see, is it more of a research
channel? Are they watching multiple videos? An easy way to look at that is under
the audience tab. And sure enough, we have blue line above the purple line. Now,
our goal is to have loyalty and we want the purple above the blue and then blue
to bring in at certain times a new audience and then we convert that audience into
a viewer. But right here, what I see is there's not a lot of conversion going on.
Let's deep dive into the advanced mode and just to validate that real quick. The
best way to do that is get the average view per viewer. And you can see right
here, 1 .7, but all these videos are 1 .1, 1 .2. And so ultimately,
we don't necessarily see a lot of traction. So what we need to do is really
getting the mindset of the viewer. And so what we need to do is come back to the
overview. I want to see what the most viewed video is. So right here, I took
Ashwaganda for 30 days, here's what happened. So basically, I need to understand this
video, because it's the number one video, and I need to understand it from release.
So the first thing I had to do is the first 24 hours, I want to see what's going
on here. He had 515 views. We want to come to our audience here.
We can see returning viewers was 329 viewers in that first day.
And 71 % of them were subscribed. So basically, his subscribers were watching the
video content. They were interested in it. And then we need to go into reach
because I want to see where that traffic's coming from. And 74 % was actually coming
from the YouTube homepage slash subscription feed. And we have 13 .6 % in search.
Now, this right here is literally telling me a little bit about what's going to
happen next based on the first day. When browse features coming up and we have
YouTube search that's coming up is the number two, I know that that's going to flip
-flop fairly quickly. And then two, search is going to go up. Now, if you notice
that YouTube is not suggesting other videos, so that's always telling me there's no
suggested video traffic percentage. And so that's telling me YouTube doesn't really
promote these videos because people aren't really clicking on multiple videos, okay?
So let's go ahead and do up to Lifetime. You can see that the bulk of the views,
impression -wise, the highest was coming on that first day. And then let's see what
happened to the audience. So returning viewer, a couple days, and then it just died
off. And then after that, new viewers are coming on. But we just kind of have
trickle traffic on returning viewers here. And then two, you can see it was still
keeping the same demographic, let's go into, to reach. And ultimately, it flip
-flopped. Like I said, 73 .3 % search. So he's stuck in search.
What do you do? Okay. So for me, I like to get a little granular. So I'm going
to select the word ashwaganda. And I'm going to go and open up a new browser, new
tab. And I'm going to search for it. And the reason why I'm searching for it is I
want to understand the other content that's out there. The benefits of Ashwaganda.
Okay, so that right there has 782 ,000 views. Ashwagana benefits.
How does it work? Okay. 1 .1 million. Now, these are a little bit older, two years
and three years, but they have a significant amount of views. Okay. And then 113
,000 views three months ago. And then here is Dr. Legrand's video that's coming up
and basically he's sharing you know what happens now for me content strategy would
have been this and i want everyone to understand what i'm saying is because when
you understand your channel and you understand the high probability that every one of
your videos is going to be in search you need to think about the viewer's journey
so for me i would have actually said, hey, I'm going to be doing a video on
Ashwaganda and what would be the viewer's journey in my content strategy.
Now, Dr. LeGrand had a great idea of taking the product and telling what happens in
30 days to the body and goes in depth and spent nine minutes on that. So that's
great. But that's one video. For me, I'm thinking, what is the viewer's journey?
Because that is my content strategy. And I would have actually started with the
benefits of Ashwaganda or Aschwana benefits. How does it actually work?
So really breaking that down, going in depth on, you know, what's going on. And
guess what the next video is going to be, guys? I took Aschwaganda for 30 days.
Here's what happened. So ultimately, you're talking about it in theory. You're going
in depth. And then you take an actionable video that you're showing people what
happens in 30 days to you taking the specific product. Now we have two videos that
literally are dovetail together. Okay. So I can guarantee you the people that are
watching the videos that, hey, this one would be for 30 days and then would want
to understand the full benefits of it and the people want to see the full benefits
of it would watch the 30 day example of it. Right. So that is a content strategy.
Now, for me, I want to do even deeper. So I want to go versus. And this is
literally helping me understand other things. So we have 25 ,000 views.
And there's not a lot with this. Here's another one. How long can you take it? How
to avoid tolerance? So this one right here, even though it's two years ago, has
some views on it. And so maybe that's another idea to go from there is you talk
about the benefits, you do it, and then the next video, how long can you take it?
You now have three videos that are way in depth on a specific product,
and ultimately it's taking them, and it's the highest probability of them watching
that video next in that sense. So ultimately, that's how we create a strategy based
off of search. Now, I want to go into advanced mode real quick, is what we need
to do is take a look at this chart right here. So if we go to the average view
per viewer, we can see it's 1 .7. Okay. Now, what I want to do is compare it to
period over period. And even though that is still the same, I'm going to do last
90 days. In fact, let's just go back here, last 90 days, and then do period over
period. And you're going to be able to see, you know, the last, last little bit
before that was 1 .9 and then we have 1 .8, 1 .8, 1 .7, somewhere there. But it's
like you're going to see that. And the reason why is that you had that 0 .2 videos
higher on more videos than here. So you have 1 .1 .1. So the average is coming out
there. Now, that gives me a lot of data. And so what I want to do is really,
really understand which ones are bringing the subscribers and then two understanding
oh here's the bucket strategy darrell you know um we have bucket bucket bucket and
then we're doing the same thing um and um ultimately bucket bucket bucket now here's
an interesting thing we have benefits of this august 2nd 2021 this net other one
would be April fourth. This other one would be February 21st.
So he did the benefits video on this one specifically, but it's all about sequencing
and timing in your content strategy. So I like to go through that exercise first.
If I know that my channel is a high probability going on search, this is the
process that I go through to truly understand how do I create three or four videos
that could release that could go through it because the benefit video should be
first. Then it's like, okay, I'm going to do this challenge. You're going to do it
30 days. And then it's going to be, oh, how long can I take it? And then another
one, this versus this. And so here we have different types of buckets that we can
take a product through. And ultimately, wash, rinse, or repeat, that content strategy
on our channel. So is this making sense because ultimately we're thinking about,
hey, we already know that this is going to be a high searched topic and we've
generally got search traffic through it. Now we're thinking well above it before we
even publish a video, what videos in which order we should actually create.

PT6

Hey jump starters, we are ready to jump right into section 8. Now you're probably
wondering why I have all my play buttons up. We got all the gold play buttons
here. Got a ton of silver play buttons there. We got silver play buttons over here.
We got old school. We got stuff over there. We even have other play buttons that's
probably not even in the shot. But the reason why I want to do this is not
necessarily for the flex, but more importantly to
And every day, I'm learning more and more by really the principles that are taught
here and applying them each day. Now, I want to share with you. We actually have a
new channel that's going out there. I am literally spending hours of analyzing the
data. And the reason why is because once I understand the patterns that we're able
to see, we can actually course correct. And course correcting will lead you to the
success that you're looking for. If you're always going to do the same thing, you're
like, oh yeah, my AVD is pretty good, my click through rate is pretty good, and
you're not looking for patterns, you're insane because that's where the success comes
of always trying to improve and trying to figure out what your audience responds to.
Now, I can tell you that these content creators out there that really start to see
this, some of them have their own YouTube success where they can say, oh, I can
kind of fill it. But ultimately, this is something like you and I, I don't have
that success, but I can actually see the data and I can interpret the data and I
can understand what is actually happening on the channel. And when you see a pattern
of either success or a pattern of something mediocre or a pattern of something that
really looks like is felling, you can analyze it and you can adjust it. Because
once you can start replicating what you see in Channel Jumpstar. Once you're starting
to replicate, hey, this can actually work, or my audience is interested in this type
of thing and the way that I engage in a way that we're starting to analyze, oh,
they really seem higher engagement here. What if we actually edited this down or
what if we actually shot this in a certain way? And ultimately, that's where you
see improvement. Now, I can honestly say, once Once again, all the success that I've
had in my life up to this point on YouTube, off of YouTube, is when I'm able to
actually analyze where I'm at. If you're satisfied that you're just great and doing
fine, this is not for you. You have to be wanting to improve every single video.
And if you can do that, that's when you actually have an active viewer that's
really engaged with your content and they become a fan, that they won't want to
miss anything that you're doing. They don't want even to go a day without seeing
your content. That's the type of fan we're looking for because that fan translates
into views, translates into money, translates into a customer. That's what we're
looking for here. And that's where I know a lot of you would like to have this
success in Channel Jump Start. My word of caution, I've seen Jumpstarters go through
this and they glaze over this section because they think, oh, I really went through
the analysis portion. I don't really get the adjustment portion of this. Then they
stopped doing it. They just like completely go back to creating videos looking at,
oh, that did pretty well. That did okay, but didn't deep dive into what's actually
happening and seeing those patterns. Because every time I've done this, I've seen a
pattern to make more money. I've seen a pattern to grow an audience. I've seen a
pattern to really have it take off. I'm going to share one last with you. and this
is probably the most powerful one ever. Two and a half years ago, I was sitting
down with Mr. Beast. And Mr. Beast and I, we actually own a couple of businesses
together. I am a strategist for him, for his main channel on some other channels
and stuff like that. But at the end of the day, we were deep diving in this
analysis that I'm showing you right now. And I alluded to this in another training,
but I want to really emphasize this point, which is when I saw a pattern that
there was a higher amount of subscribers with a certain type of video, that gave us
data that we knew if we produced a certain type of video would bring more
subscribers. That's it. And then two, you're going to see some that actually
translated into a higher revenue and others that will actually be higher attention.
And you're thinking, well, why can't we do all three? That's not the way it works,
guys. That's why we have buckets. And that's why we have certain types of videos
that do certain types of things we need to have this data to truly understand how
it's going to perform how our audience is going to receive it but more importantly
that we have some predictability or we can actually test our assumptions to create
predictability in growing your audience and having success on the platform okay guys
really jump in deep dive in section eight please go over it over and over again.
And then after section eight, we're going to actually continue on with group
coaching. That's where we're able to go a lot more in depth because you will have
the foundation that you need in Channel Jump Start that I can actually consult with
you. Because if you're at a certain level, it's easier to explain a topic instead
of teaching you the topic and then have to explain it. We can all be on the same
page. And I actually look forward to it because that's when we're to see the most
success is when we really start deep diving into those little details that we can
replicate for your success. We'll see you on the next video.

PT7

So I'm going to teach you how I went from a thousand monthly views to 38 million.
And I know a lot of people here might have not started their channel yet. So I
want to show you what I started with. This is my first setup. If you cannot see
it, let me describe it for you. I have a $200 computer that my grandpa bought me.
I told him he was a little bit old and he wasn't happy about it, by the way. $10
chair and I was very deprived of sleep. I don't know if you can see that. But
that is to show you that anybody in this room can do it. I don't care what you're
doing. Whatever you have, you can do this. So, this was my first ever video.
This might be the worst retention you'll ever see in your life. It had 2 .8 % and
500 views. The graph is so bad, I feel bad about showing it to you all. The
thumbnail was dreadful.
alanizing anything. My thumbnails were not great. I'm going to teach you how to make
them great. Now, when it came to thumbnails, I was coming up with them after the
video was recorded. I don't know if you guys know, but if you're doing this, you're
probably in the wrong spot. You should think about your thumbnails before you even
release the video. Don't worry. I'm going to tell you how to think about them
properly. Now, the results, 500 views. There was no thought behind them and there
was too much text. I don't know if you guys can see that thumbnail properly. I'm
going to describe it. There is not a single face, there is a lot of text and I
don't think anybody here can understand what's happening. So when I was planning my
videos, I was just knowing the idea and executing them. A lot of you might see
this and kind of think, oh, I'm doing that. Well, that's wrong because your video
will have this retention, which is 29%. I didn't want to show that 2 .9 again
because I thought it was very depressing so yeah
break. That was a year ago, actually. And he got, that video got 21 ,000 views.
I was very gasped about that. It was actually my best video where I was taking a
break. And you can see my face. I was very, yeah, sad, I guess. I did go on to,
after the break, have a lot of different things that I was doing. And that's what
I want to talk to about today. First of all, I finally had a clear goal. I wanted
to become the biggest football creator the world had ever seen. Before,
which is great, and everything I was doing before got me to half a million views.
So there is merit in it, clearly. I did my break, I uploaded less. The break
lasted a day, by the way. I don't know if, yeah, it wasn't clearly a break, but
let's say it was a break, thank you. I did get 300 ,000 views after that.
And a lot of you may see this, and you'll be like, yeah, he's doing bad, and
you'll quit. Well, this is what happened three months later. I had my best day
ever.
you go down in views, you will go up if you do what I'm telling you now. So,
how do you become the biggest? Because that was my goal, right? Become the biggest
football career of the world has ever seen. Well, you need to make the best videos
possible. You have heard this from Mr. Beast a lot of times, and I want to break
it down. First, you need to make people click. Simple. Then you need to make people
watch it. But something that nobody is talking about, or I don't listen anybody
talking about. It's getting people to return. Like you need to make people return to
your video. You cannot just make a video, make it great, but then inside delivered
improperly and then nobody comes back. You're basically having to acquire customers,
in this case, viewers, every single video. No, if you make them return, you build a
fan base. So, the click. Let's talk about that one first. You need a great video
idea, a great thumbnail, and a great title. How do you have a great idea? Well, I
personally brainstorm daily. I've heard Ryan, Treyhead, and Mr. Bees do the same. If
you want an easy, quick tip on how to brainstorm, I think I actually say this
later to worry. I'm going to go to that. But make sure your ideas are interesting.
And the easiest way to have an insane idea is to recreate one that's proven.
This is The most simplest, if there is one thing that I want everybody in this
chat to understand, is that if you grab an orino video from a different niche, in
this case, Clash Royale, that video got 9 .3 million views. And Clash Royale,
that was actually the most viewed video in Clash Roreale, which is actually a mobile
game. Does anybody know what Clash Rial is? Can you raise your hand? Bro, and these
got 9 .3 million views. If you guys know what Clash Rial is, That's crazy. So I
said, what about I recreated? And I made a video called I spent $1 ,000 beating
FIFA. I'm going to break down why I think that actually does really good.
But these are the simple steps. I think I actually went through them. You first
find a niche. So say, for example, I am in FIFA, which is football gaming. Sorry,
soccer. I'm in America. It's soccer. I hate to say it. I hope nobody recorded me
saying that. If you did, please delete it right now. Thank you. But you need to
make sure you find a niche. In my case, I just look for different niches, like
Madden, NBA, anything like that. Oh, that helps a lot. Jesus. Oh,
I should have done that since the beginning. My bad. For the ones in the back. If
you couldn't hear, sorry. Now, second thing, you need to get a highly viewed I
understand why it performed well. I see so many people grabbing an idea and
thinking, oh, they'll perform well, let's do it. Get, understand why. If you
understand why the idea did well, you can then apply to your niche, and then make
sure that you recurated. So, this is what it looked like for me on a different
perspective. Research. I did my research on a channel called W2S. He was getting 20
million views on FIFA. You know how crazy that is. That's like Mr. Bees level four
years ago. That's mad. And when I did my research on a topic called Toti, which is
like a team of the year, I don't want to get nerdy because I know nobody
understands what it. Do you understand what Totty is? Again, raise your hand. Oh,
really? Jesus. Okay, that's a lot of narrates here. Good. Shout out to you guys.
Well, it means team of the year. It's the most important promotion in the game. You
get a lot of views when you do it. So I researched Toti. It was a great topic.
and I found a twist to it. I wasn't going to recreate what he did, which is like
packing the totte, which is like something you can do inside the game. You can open
packs. It's kind of like gambling, but they call it, oh, I shouldn't have said
that. If EA sees this, if the company sees this, they're going to hate me. But
it's like, it's like gambling. And the way it was,
I'm sorry, EA. But basically, the way it works is you can open the packs. What I
did instead of getting the packs, I just bought the cards. So it was a little
twist to it. I understood why it works, because it's a very popular idea, and I
applied my own twist to it. You can all do that on your own niches. If you find
an idea that gets a lot of views, you add a twist to it, and it works. So,
titles. We're talking about ideas, which is kind of like the most important part.
But when it comes to make a title, I think the easiest way to make a title is to
describe what the video is in the most simplistic way possible. First, and then make
sure that it's very widely appealing. So, what does a great title? By the way, I
sat on the back before, and I know you cannot read any of this, and I am so
sorry to all of you on the back, but I'm going to describe it for you. On the
left, we have a great title. It's in my eyes, widely appealing because I spent $1
,000 beating FIFA. I think everybody can understand. Like how many people here
understand what a thousand dollars is? Again, raise your hand. I like to do this.
There you go. So a lot of people know what it means. Then beating, you understand
you win. Like when you beat something, you win. So anybody can understand that. The
only thing that limits that title is FIFA because not everybody knows what FIFA is.
So I spend a thousand dollars within FIFA is a great title because everybody reading
it can possibly understand it. On the other side, my bad titles back in the day
were the German hool -it. I know nobody understands that. FIFA people don't understand
that. Nobody understands that. And so it's very bad. Again, a title worked with your
thumb. That's like high -level stuff, but basically a title should complement your
thumbnail. And, yeah, the thumbnail and the title do not work at all on the right
side. It's very confusing and you will not get it. So now that you get what a
good title looks like let me tell you what a good thumbnail should look like it
needs to catch it needs to catch your attention show the video idea in the most
simplistic way possible and needs to be very easy to understand i think this is
what makes ryan trade hand videos so good because you literally see it and you get
the idea of the video in like seconds so how did i apply that to myself well in
the video i spent a thousand dollars dollars within FIFA, I got 3 .8 million views
in three months, because you can see my face. I have a very happy expression.
People like to see happy people, at least in my niche. And then on the left side
of me, is that, do you count that as the left? Okay, maybe the right side to you.
Okay, on my, you know the bronze car that has a zero over it? Well, that shows
that bronze to most people means bad. So you understand, okay, that's bad, you see
zero dollars above it. That means that there is a progression because on the right
side of me, there is a thousand. And underneath, there is the card that I showed
you about before, which is the tauti card, which is a really good card. So people
understand that you went from bad to good. And then when they read the title and
they see, I spend $1 ,000 meeting FIFA, they are like, ah, I get it. So he's going
to go from bad to good. And I actually want to click on the video to see what
that looks like inside. Another thing that I think this thumbnail achieves is on my
background, in the past I used to be so bad, decided my background, on my
background you can see grass. I play football. In football, grass is dominant. It
would be weird if I put the sky behind me, because I'll be having to stand to
show the sky. So it looks very natural because I'm on the grass with two cards
next to me. So I think that all adds up to make a great thumbnail. Then on the
right side, Jesus Christ, it's so bad. Okay, where do I start? Where not to start?
Look, my face, what am I doing? You cannot even see my eyes. There is no
optimization whatsoever. I'm so sorry if you have to see that. Jesus.
Now we've got 6 .5K views because so many of you are seeing it. Behind me, there
is like a white thing that you put on kitchens. I don't know about you, but
football's not played on the kitchen. So nobody understands that. Nobody. And then
there is a card that's like blurred and there is an arrow. So even though I was
actually following good principles, like it's my face, there is a car next to me.
There is a lot of things going wrong. The car that I chose was wrong. The thing
behind me, the background, is very wrong. and there is no context between the title
and the thumbnail. So, retention. I know a lot of you will have trouble with this,
and to be honest, I also have problems with retention. I'm not the greatest, but
I'm going to break down the most simplistic way anybody here can go today home and
improve their videos. It's the intro. If you can show people what they clicked for
as soon as the video starts, you can be simple and quick, you will get so many
more views you don't even get it. If after this, you start focusing more on your
thumbnails and your intros, you will 100 % become a better YouTuber. So if there is
one thing you take out of this, please be to work on your intros. Make them more
simple and make them more quick. Wow, I am supposed to play my intro and I don't
know how this would work. Is there a way? Can any from the team? Is it possible
to actually play my intro, guys? Or, okay, nobody's answering me. Ah?
It's playing it? Okay, but it's not... It's not sounding. Well, basically,
you know what? I was prepared for this, actually, you know? So, a bad intro,
because there is no sound, I think. Can you make it so there is sound?
No? Well, fair enough, it's fine. Basically, my old intros had no energy. In that
video, if you play it, you see that nothing changes. You see that. That's 11
seconds of that screen. You know how bad that is? Somebody clicks on that, and I'm
telling them to leave. That's the video that got 2 .8 % retention. There is no face.
There is nothing. There is three cards, no movement. And my voice goes something
like this. Today, we are going to be... Okay, what am I doing? Looking at the best
Super subs. Terrible. Nobody clicks on that. And, well, this was the graph. It was,
for the ones in the back, I was bait. For the, for the ones in the back, it
looks like I was telling people to leave the video. My intro was, it was basically
me saying, like, please leave now. Don't watch this. Like, what are you doing? It
got 1 .7K views, though, you know? whatever 4 .30 % retention I guess and then this
one can you play it too and I will do my best job at recreated it I got every
card I can't do this but basically I was very excited on this one and I showed so
much stuff 11 seconds went by and there is like so many things going on so many
cars I can get better actually slowing things down but just doing this making sure
that I won share the idea of the video in the most simplistic way possible, which
you guys will have to spend a lot of time sitting down and coming up with how you
can actually make that happen. It's what got me this one to be my best intro.
Oh my God, I didn't mean that. Okay. Is what got this video to be one of my best
intros? He got 82 % abuse after 30 seconds, which is really good for me.
The little dip after it, it's an ad. I'm very bad at integrating ads and I need
to get better at it. Maybe next year, if a lot of you want me to come back, I
would teach you how to make better ads. But not today, I guess. And yeah, not
today. I got 45 % retention on that video, which is not great, but the intro was
really good. And it shows the idea, if you are very energetic when you do your
things, you make it simple and you make it quick, you will get people to watch
your video for longer. and this way and these will not happen let's make sure that
doesn't happen again please now the story again I will make sure I show you in a
very quick transition how you can make a great story an easy story I'm not Hayden
Hillersmith okay I try and just I make FIFA videos at home so you need to give
people a reason to watch and I think one thing that no many people are talking
about is tension. I want to teach you how you can use tension to increase your
retention from like 50 % to 60. I think that has been the key for me to actually
increase from like 50 % to 60 % and removing all the fluff. I think enough people
say that. I think anybody can understand if you like if there is a part in the
video where you're seeing the video and you're like, why is this here? You should
remove it, right? Do you all get that? Can you say yes? Yes. Let's go. Nice.
Wow, I'm excited. Now, what is tension? Because I actually presented this to a
friend and he asked him, what does tension mean? And I'm like, well, but I don't
know. So I actually researched it. And it means a state of worry. To me,
inside the video, it actually means that you make it always seem like the video is
about to end. If the video feels like you're about to reach the goal at most
times, they won't leave because they think you're about to reach the goal. If you
watch a mis -revis video and you love it, you realize, well, if you watch and you
keep watching it, you realize that a lot of times because you think the video is
about to end. So why leave is the video is about to end? So if you can make sure
that that's how your videos feel, this is what's going to happen. Well, this is not
what's going to happen. Sorry, this is a bad example. That's not, not bad. But in
this case, this retention graph, to some retention gigs out there.
And the video inside felt very repetitive. I was going FIFA by FIFA by FIFA. So
people were bored. They go bored very quickly, and that's what you can see. My
graph had 53%, half a million views, which is like, for me back then, that's like
my worst performing video. And in the second half of the video, I lost 20%. So
what do I do to fix this? Well, in the next one, I add a story. So this video
was talking about how I bought the most expensive team in the game and the way I
came up with it was the most expensive team in the game means me spending a
certain amount of money but in real in reality inside I didn't know if I was going
to be able to achieve it so at all times inside that video people didn't know
whether I was going to be able to achieve the goal so they were like whoa is he
going to achieve it yes or no so throughout the entire video they think it will
end and that's why the retention is a little bit more flat it's not perfect
and I'm very passionate about. I love to make my outros end as soon as the video
ends. I know a lot of people that would literally like the video ends and they're
like, ooh, this was nice. Like, wow, I really enjoyed this. And I'm like, bro,
if the video is about you buying something, the moment you buy it, it ends, right?
Why do you have to tell me that you were excited about buying it the entire time?
Like, people leave after that. This is what it looks like on the right side when
you go on for too long. I don't know if you guys can see it, but basically, I'm
basically telling people to leave. Every second that was by, people are leaving the
video. On the left side, which is a very good outro, it's flat. Because,
well, I ended the video where it was supposed to end at the ending. So, what does
that look like? Again, it's a video, but they don't play, really. So Basically,
the way I end an outro is as soon as the last thing is, which in this case was
the best team, yeah, it was like the best team in the game. The way I ended it,
as soon as I had the final team, was me saying, like, did you love me building
the best team in the game? You would love me doing something else, like click here
to watch it. That's it. That's the outro. As soon as I show the final team, I
tell them to go and watch my next video, and it makes them return, which is
actually our next point hopefully yes returning viewers so how do you make people
return because everything I've told you up to this up to this point you can
actually do but then they will never come back and if that happens then your
channel ends up being one of those where you have like one video that gets like 10
million views and then every single other gets a thousand how many of those channels
have you guys seen I've seen too many so I want that to stop the way you do that
is if you repeat the great idea. If you have one video that go over a million
views, you should repeat that. If you go one video that got more than what you
average, you should repeat that. And yeah, you get people to return by not
clickbaiting. I think we all know that, but I kind of wanted to talk about it. And
then you need to understand your view. I'm going to talk about that later. But how
do you repeat the idea? I think I'm really good at this, and you're going to see
how. But as I said before, you need to look at a video that you did that got a
lot more views than you normally get and add a twist to it. So what does that
look? Okay, this is, you're going to love this. So I did this format of videos
that I repeated four times, and I actually got 8 .4 million views on it. And
basically, the idea was that I did something and that turned into a consequence. So
like, I open, icon packs every goal, I didn't understand understand how weird they
also want to sound in front of a hundred people and even FIFA people don't
understand this title but it's I open icon packs every goal I scored so in FIFA
there is like a pack that you can open and there is also a way that you can
score goals like in any sports you can score in this case I scored but in the
next one in the second example I won games so that's a follow -up I saw that the
first video in seven months got 2 .7 million views so I was like well what about
we do that again I did it five months five months later it got two million I then
did it two months it got 2 .7 million and then I did it again and it got 1
million but how well if you see the thumbnails they're all very similar except the
first one I don't know why I have to change it but the three thumbnails for those
of you that are not cannot see on the back, the three thumbnails are very similar.
So it's very easy for somebody that saw one of my videos and really liked it to
see the next one and be like, oh shoot, I saw that first video and I liked it.
What about we click on this one again? Because it's going to make me feel good
again. So you're making people recognize your thumbnails and come back and see them
twice and see your video twice. Now, how others do it? Well,
you might know this man. He's called Mr. Beast. I think he doesn't need an
introduction, really. But he has done this one thing where it's not all super
similar, but they all have something in common. He's in the middle. There is a day
on the side. There is one that says hour, but I wanted to add four, you know. The
hour one is different, but I wanted to add four. I'm sorry. Just look better for
my eye. They all have similar faces. And if you see in three of them, he's
actually reaching his hand out. So it's very easy for anybody that saw the, say for
example, I survived 50 hours in a maximum security prison, to then see that I spent
50 hours buried alive. I mean, like, I love the previous one. I'm going to click
on this one again. So he's getting people to return. And yeah, he's always on the
middle, too, on those ones. He has a lot of different, like, styles. Now, clickbait.
I just wanted to touch on this very quick. My definition of clickbait is if you
promise something and it doesn't happen in the video you should that's bad you
shouldn't do that and with viewers i actually wanted to make sure that you all
understand your viewer everything i've told you up until now makes no sense if you
don't know who you're making videos for so please after this ask yourself who are
you targeting like who are they what excites them bro like how old are they What
do they do when they go home? I know how to answer all these questions,
so it's very easy for me to make a video that will make these people excited. I'll
give an example just to, you know, you kind of get it. My fans are football fans.
They love football. They all support a football team. So if I make a video about
that team, I know they're going to click on that video because they love that team.
How old are they? Well, they're like 10, really.
Yeah, Yeah, I've found 21 -year -olds on the street that have told me like, hey,
they are very rare, though. But when I make videos, I have them on top of my mind
because I know what will make them laugh, what will make them click, obsess over
that. And then I have a little case study where I wanted to teach you how I got
from a million views by removing my face from my thumbnail. It sounds very nice. It
was actually very hard. And if you see my thumbnail change, it might not look like
unreal from the back, but by that point, it was like 140 days into this upload.
So you may be like, what are you doing? Why are you changing a video after 140
days? Well, it had 1 .3 million views, and I believed it could get more I'm just
crazy like that sometimes and when I change that you can I don't know if the ones
on the back can see it but the CTR was something like when the video came out was
something like 5 % 6 % as soon as I changed the thumbnail it became 9 and a lot
of people clicked on the video again and I want to teach you how I did that so
these are before and that's the after they are very different Very different
thumbnails. The title is called I Build Ronaldo's Dream Team. And I find it's so
funny to me that I'm talking football stuff too. So maybe I might never have
watched the game. But the way the left one works, there is a lot going on. I know
the right one has a lot going on too, but especially the left one. The video title
is I built Ronaldo's Dream Team. My mindset is, why are people clicking on this
video? Why? in my head, because they want to see his team. So I need to make it
very certain that the theme that I'm showing is the real one that he says inside.
So on the left one, that wasn't very clear. If you see him and me, he's clearly
Photoshopped. Like, he's clearly Photoshopped. I am clearly Photoshopped there. And in
the middle, there is even two faces. There is his face twice in the thing. And
there is text above it. And then there is sky. What is the sky there like people
wonder this thing when they see this on their brows when they see this on their on
their phones they're wondering like why is there a sky there that that makes people
not click i actually did a test on this by the way if you confuse a viewer they
will not like it and then the after now uh i'm gonna tell you the why i changed
i kind of went through it but i wanted to tell you too like i basically brainstorm
a lot of alternatives, and what I told you about, I wanted to make it certain that
he was there with me. So I made it look like a call, right? Of course, Ronaldo is
on a call with me. He's clearly not. That did not happen inside the video. But it
gets the idea across. And he actually told his dream team, which is like in
football, you have like 11 players. And he said his favorite in 11. So a lot of
people, like I know the 10 -year -old that goes to class and likes football will
love this video so I just kind of needed to get the idea across that I talked to
him and that he told me his team so on the right side of the thumbnail I showed
his team the little arrow is because there is a lot of things happening I actually
went on to make a very variation of this later on but this one worked really well
for me and oh thank that's it I guess
thank Thank you. Wow. Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Wow. He's got two minutes left.
He's got a question. Loud and proud. We don't have a like to move. Go ahead. Stand
up and shout. Is
it a good idea to go back and read the thumbnails on those? Or is it better just
to go out and remake the content with a better If I had 100 % of my time, I
wouldn't allocate any of it to doing that. But if I have a break and I want to,
like, go outside and, like, eat something, or I'd rather, I wouldn't go outside and
I would do that change. If you get me, like, it's something that is not important,
but you have extra time. Yeah, why not? Especially, I would say, if you're getting
over a million views of video, maybe it makes a lot of sense. But if you are,
like, getting less than 10K or less than 100k video, it might be like, it may not
make any sense or any difference. So, yeah, that's what I'll recommend. I hope that
helped at all, by the way. That's the first question I ever get.
Okay, we've got time for one more question. Okay, he's standing, so hello. Go on.
Well, I like to do eight first because I can put midrolls in, so that helps pay
the bills. So that's, that's a certain one. But I've noticed that the longer the
video, the better it performs.
So ideally, I want to keep the videos between 8 and 12 minutes. But if I can,
over 20 helps a lot. because they perform better for me you need to do your own
research don't just go and apply what I said because then I will see a lot of
people making 24 -hour videos and be like I'll be like I'm sorry YouTube I guess
last question when doing a B testing for your thumbnails how soon do you change a
thumbnail if you see that's like not performing bro as soon as I get sad genuinely
Like, if it's a 10 out of 10, ooh, I'm ready. I'm ready. Straight away,
I just change it. But no, to give you like a more specific one. Sometimes it's a
10 out of 10, and I believe in it, because it's like my baby, so I keep it
because I believe the thumbnail could do better and good over time. But ideally, you
have three thumbnails ready, other than your main one, or at least having your head
what you want it to be and then change it as soon as I'm performing bad but
sometimes this exercise where I change the thumbnail I really like to do because it
it makes my brain think about new thumbnail so I would say even if you don't do a
lot of A -B test in the future when you have free time you can do some believe me
it's fun or maybe I'm just crazy all right let's give it up for Santiago Vasquez
thank you thank you




