And then also on top of that, number two, because this question happens all the
time, every single group. And maybe we won't get that question in the next group
because they're going to be watching this very early in Channel Jumpstart on fair
use. What is fair use? How do you handle that when it comes to taking other
people's IP and content and all that good stuff? And then the third, but not least,
which is also a major one, is the hiring process from a W9 to or a W2 to a 1099
and all those things that you should be looking out for as you build your
entertainment company. Because as you come on as a jump starter, our whole thing is
we focus on you are an entertainment company. This is something bigger than just,
hey, let's create a cool video. Let's throw it up on YouTube. if it gets some
views awesome money in the pocket but you're looking for long -term growth you're
looking for community connection you're looking for a lot more and how do we
continue to expand and connect with others and that's why it's so important is that
so many people have that long -term vision and excited about it but they forget
about the structure of building a business behind that and making sure that you have
your employees set up correctly so it doesn't come back and bite you hard. So
that's why this is.
mute you as well. So awesome. There we go. So Brittany, kicking it over to you.
Hey, well do. Thank you so much, Justin. And thank you everyone for being here,
especially those of you watching the replay. I'm going to share my screen and get
into this because I'm so excited about what we're talking about today that I want
to make sure we have time to cover all this and have questions. So, okay, let me
pull these up. Perfect. Perfect.
Okay.
And then we'll go into present modes. These are looking all pretty, right?
Oh, yeah. I want to be, I'm like, Ariel, I want to be where my creatives are at.
And I know I'm with some truly creative people in here. So I always want to just
trying to keep up with you guys. So, Well, welcome everybody. Again, my name is
Brittany Rattel. And today we're going to be talking about protecting creators in an
AI age. And like Justin says, the three kind of buckets we're talking about today
specifically, our AR threats and opportunities, how to navigate that as a creator.
We're also going to be talking about fair use. And believe it or not, this actually
overlaps with a lot of the copyright principles that I want to go over so that
will help you kind of understand maybe some risk analysis and how you can navigate
some of these questions because a lot of this stuff is really changing really fast
and the law is slow so instead we have to go on what are the principles that we
have and then we're definitely going to touch on hiring firing growing your team
because these are risks that i see um that people have all the time questions that
come up and we definitely want to give you some clarity so that you can move
forward with confidence in your business so okay so there's our outline quickly
quickly AI and copyright. I got a legal checklist for you. I've got some swipe text
even for you to add to your contracts. I know really sexy stuff that you signed up
today in the presentation. Fair use and then that hiring and firing. Okay. What kind
of attorney would I be if I didn't start out with a little standard disclaimer,
right? So while I'm an attorney, I'm an IP and entertainment attorney.
I'm licensed and barred in Utah So because I do so much IP work, I actually help
clients all over the U .S. But I'm not your attorney. This is not an attorney
-client relationship. It's not official legal advice. But I do hope that it's helpful
and that you get some really good quick wins today of things you can do and start
opening up maybe some of those curiosity loops of bigger changes, questions,
opportunities you might have in your business as you continue to grow and things
unfold for you. So here's a quick overview of some of the amazing, amazing people
that I've been able to work with over the last decade that I've been specializing
in helping personal brands, online, creators, entrepreneurs, really cool people online
doing really cool things. And I've been so grateful to be a small part of their
business and their story to be their outside legal counsel, their listening ear,
their protector, their ghostwriter on a lot of emails to try to de -escalate things,
all the stuff behind the scenes. And have been
I believe. So against a rising tide of AI slop, right? Your human creativity is the
moat that you're building around your castle. People don't connect with content. They
connect with stories and connection is hard to copy. And I think this really
supports what we've been learning and channel jumpstart on like, that's why
storytelling matters. That's why these principles of getting and keeping people's
attention and delivering them you, it's going to matter even more now than ever
because that is what is really hard to copy and rip off an engineer. And so we
got to lean into that. And that's why I'm excited because the bedrock of
intellectual property principles support and protect that, that kind of human and
connection. So let's kind of set the table a little bit. So it's important to
understand a few of our working terms when we're talking about intellectual property,
okay? So here's some for IP. There's four types of IP in the U .S. that we really
recognize. The main two that we talk about with creators, especially video creators,
are trademark and copyright here. So here's a quick example for one of my clients,
a HOPE scope that I help, Hope and Tyler. And so trademark protects our branding.
So this is going to protect things like the name of your channel, your stylized
logo, catchphrases, you know, things that protect your branding as a source indicator
of goods and services. Copyright protects your actual creative work. So this is what
actually protects your videos, short form and long form. It protects your music. If
you make music, it can protect your books or e -books or courses or digital products
if you make those. If you go into physical products, it can protect the creative
parts of those product, right, like surface pattern designs or whatnot. And so it's
really, I hear these terms misused a lot. And, you know, I just, I want you to
have good tools so you can make better decisions, right, and understand what are
people asking to use and not use and how is that going to benefit you in the long
term. And so just as a reminder, trademark protects branding, copyright protects
creative works. Okay. So Copyright is we're going to be really digging into down
today. And here are some fundamental copyright principles that will help you kind of
wrap your arms around what is going on with AI, what should we be doing to take
advantage of it, right, and to protect ourselves. So right now, the way U .S. law
is defining it, the legal principles, to be copyrightable in terms of a creative
work, it has to be created by a human. And there's a really funny case called
Naruto that was decided by the Supreme Court just a few years ago in 2018, which
is very recent for copyright law, where basically a wilderness photographer was out
and he had this set up where he set up where a monkey could take a picture of
themselves. He had a really friendly camera and an easy way to push the shutter.
And sure enough, a monkey took a selfie of himself. Okay. And the picture had a
lot of commercial value, it got, you know, sold and licensed and used. And the
question came up as it does when money starts getting involved, right? Is, was that
picture copyrightable? Who owned the copyright to the picture? Did the monkey own the
copyright or was it the photographer? And when it was decided that a monkey cannot
own a copyright. And this is important because computers cannot own copyright. AI
software cannot own copyright because our law says that copyright is for human
generated works only. Only humans get copyright protection. Okay. And this is really
important to understand as we use and fold in AI into our use as creators because
we are going to start to have to decide and parse out and always keep in the back
of our mind, are we preserving the copyrightability of our creative works? because
that's going to set up a lot of our options of what we have to license and
commercialize and get the full value right out of our works. And so that's a
fundamental principle. And I don't see this changing at all. I could see there are
some jurisdictions. The UK is a little bit more lax than this. China has some
recent case law that they're exploring. Maybe some generative works are going to be.
I think in the U .S. we're going to hold really strong here because it's in the
Constitution and it's pretty clear in the Constitution that we're referring to humans
creating works on anything else. Okay. Next thing to understand is copyright steps.
And so the copyright process, you know, as creatives, we have ideas on our head,
right? They're in our brain. And then things in our brain are actually not protected
by copyright. For good or for bad, that's the way it is. So ideas are not
protected. So we have all these ideas swirling around, but it is the expression of
those. And in copy light language and lawyer speak, we say it's a creative work
fixed in a tangible medium, which means it comes out of our head and it goes into
something. And it can be as simple as a Post -it note, right? Believe it or not,
this is actually protected by copyright. It could be scribbled on the back of an
app and it doesn't have to be fancy. But it's in something, which includes a
digital format, right? Recording a video, an audio, drawing something,
right? Now it's fixed. And now that is what is protected. And we get that
automatically. We don't have to do anything special. We own that copyright. And then
we have the option to do things. I kind of say it's like making a cake. And
that's what this is over here. And now you can decide how you want to parse out
that cake. And that's what licensing and royalties is, is who gets a slice and for
how long and when do you get those rights back and what do they get to do with
it? And that's the bedrock right of all education and entertainment industries is
based on those principles. But I want you to understand that the last step of the
copyright process that a lot of people don't understand and it's hurting them and
it's hurting their enforcement options is that there is an additional step in the U
.S. specifically and that's to register your copyright and this means that you
actually go on
one of these, if someone takes your stuff a little bit or all of it and rips it
off and uses it, you can say, hey, knock it off. I'm going to write you a cease
and desist. I'm going to do a DMCA takedown with the platform. I'm going to try to
see if I can get a copyright strike on you. But you can only go so far because
there's no legal stick to actually come out after somebody. The legal stick comes
when you have one of these. So that's important to understand because we do not
want to hurt our availability and opportunity to get one of these and protect our
works. Now, I understand a lot of us make a lot of content and it's not practical
that every work that we create in every video is going to be registered. But it
needs to be able to be registered. And I certainly recommend for my larger creators,
ones that have these are huge assets that now are being monetizable, especially that
we have big long form that we chop up and we turn into short form and other, you
know, other derivative works, other sublicing that might be happening. I think it's
worth 50 bucks to, you know, protect that and register that. And now you have
enforcement options, right? Because if someone takes it, you can, you can really make
them stop. You have a force of law on the court behind you. Okay. The next thing
to understand about copyright and AI is that right now the law is that you need to
disclose the use of AI if you go to register and get one of these, okay?
And if you don't do this, if you're caught lying or omitting something, you can
actually get your registration canceled. And this is what happened in a recent case,
and it's called Zari of the Dawn. And a company put together and they wrote a
graphic novel. A human wrote the text and assembled the story, right, wrote the
story, but the images that went along with its graphic novel were completely
generated by AI. They used Mid Journey, right? And so they applied for registration.
They actually got registration because they didn't disclose this, right? And they were
kind of bragging about it on the internet, which is, please don't do that. If you
get a registration and you lied about it, don't go brag on the internet, right?
Internet never forgets. And the Copyright Office reached out and canceled their
registration and said, you have to disclose that you use AI. You lie to us, which
we don't like. And B, if we had known that all your images were using Mid Journey,
we cannot give copyright protection to those images, right? That's generative AI.
That's not a work of significant human authorship, okay? And so now the whole legal
question that will be developed now, and that's what I'm trying to navigate, right?
While we still don't have a lot of law, We have some glimpses and we have some
case law, you know, and compendiums and things that have come out from the Copyright
Office are like, well, what do you mean by human authorship? And we're going to get
to that next. What does that mean? But that's the question now of how do we
preserve that, right? Because that's our humanness and creativity that we want to
have. And the last thing that I mentioned, you know, like I said, licensing and
royalties, that's important to understand is because we have to have right to be
able to do this stuff, right? And that's why education and entertainment industries
are profitable and why people invest capital and time and money and can hire and
have BC money come into is, and all of that is only possible because we have
boundaries around what we own. And then we get to decide who and what and when
uses that for how long, for what purposes.
That's what relationships and boundaries have to be in a written contract.
That's a well -established thing. And so this is why all this matters and why
contracts matter and copyright matters is because that's how we preserve our ability
to make a living in this business, right? Okay. So what is copyrightable?
Okay. That is the question. And so we've gotten some guidance from the Copyright
Office, which we're grateful for. They put out basically last year, the last two
years said, hey, we know this has exploded. People are giving us a lot of
questions. We know people are registering stuff with AI. Here's what we know so far.
And so this is what we know so far. Okay. Creative works have to have sufficient
human authorship. Okay. That that's a good start. Now, what does that mean? Well,
it means lawyers are going to lawyer. That's the long answer, right? That is going
to develop in court and lower courts and higher courts. It's probably eventually
going to go to the Supreme Court and we hope we get.
We also know that right now, this is a case -by -case analysis, which means that we
have principles and we look to like big picture thinking, but no one can give you
a blessing and be like, yep, your thing is definitely copyrightable. No one can say
that unless they are a judge in a black robe, okay? And so anyone else who tells
you that that they know for sure 100 % is lying to you and it's probably selling
something, okay? So that's just good to understand like that's, that's a reality that
we're living in. So the short answer to this is that we need to be using
improve that creative expression. It doesn't have to be a lot. If you looked at
stuff that gets copyright registrations, if you think of modern art, which let's be
honest, right, it can be very simplistic, very minimalistic, you know, oh, we have a
person with the giant blue square. Awesome. That has, you know, that does get
copyright protection because they can defend it as there were still choices. I chose
to do this rather than this, right? And so that's what we're going to try to
doubled down. So here are, these are my tips, right? These are Brittany's tips to
preserve copyright ability. This might be a great screen to screenshot if you want
to, which is totally fine, by the way. You're also welcome to share on social
media. I know people get worried when they take my workshops because they're like,
Brittany's an IP attorney. I don't want her coming for me. But listen, my mission
is to help empower creatives. And if you can help me on that mission and make this
stuff easier to understand, then we're, we're on alignment, right, we're on the same
team. So I recommend that you stay in a driver's seat, okay, as a creative. So
make meaningful creative choices, combine more than two to three elements. We get
this from other copyright case law that says like, hey, just throwing two things
together might not be it, but when we start getting to three, four, you get some
rights. These are called compilation rights that are really interesting. And it means
you've put things together. Like you selected the sequence and the structure, and
they don't like the term graphic design. So don't talk about graphic design, but
like editing, tone, lighting, character development. All of this shows,
you know, voice, graphics, music. When you are the one in the driver's seat picking
all of this out, that's really going to land more on the spectrum of copyrightable.
Okay. Two, document your creative contributions, right? I recommend, and I understand,
this is not going to be possible for everything. I don't think, like, you need to
be running a loom video of your whole life as you're editing, right? I get that
that's probably practically impossible. However, the higher the percentage of the AI
use in your content or the more you have to lose, right? The more commercially
viable, the end product might be, like, if the stakes are higher and the AI is
higher, that's where I would be like, in the back of my mind, we need to do a
better job of showing our work, okay? And showing where are the humans in this
whole process, okay? So example would be screenshoting or doing a loom video or
screen recording, right, of your choices, of your prompts, the revision of prompts,
humans doing edits and drafts, right? Approvals and final cuts, right? Final, final,
final, final, right? And all of us know that life of like when, when will we
finally be the final file name, right? Number three, don't rely on 100 % AI
generated outputs, right? Remember that standalone generative AI work is not
copyrightable under U .S. law on its own. Now, if we take that work and then we
add human stuff on top, the human stuff is protected. Or if we take a bunch of AI
elements and put that together, the human compilation is going to be protected,
right? So an example that I can think of is, you know, you've got a long form
video and you use and there's a lot of apps and software that are doing a good
job of this, experimenting this, right, to chop it up and make some clips, right?
These are little promos or teasers or maybe you're going to push on short form or
whatnot. Even if AI is the only one doing, like if AI is just doing short form
and you're not doing anything else, that short form is probably not protected by
copyright, that version, but the underlying video is. And again, if you then took
that AI short form and you still made decisions, you're like, I like what it did
here, but I don't like this clip, or I'm gonna move this around, or you know what
I'm saying? Like, you're adding that in, then I think that you're, you're now
getting the humans back in the game, and now you're preserving copyright ability. And
number four would be preserving the IP chain of title. And this means that as we're
using AI in our work, and especially as we are broke.
contractors or freelancers to disclose AI use. You should know how they're using AI
and you should have them rip and warranty. In legal speak, this means they need a
promise. It needs to be a contractual promise that their team members or especially
subcontractors won't use AI to undermine the copyrightability of the work. And because
I love you guys and I want to give back. I've gotten so much at a channel
jumpstart so far and being part of the community, that here is some sample language
you can use. So this is probably definitely one you want a screenshot. And we'll
have this replay available. So don't freak out if you don't have a chance to get
it now. But I understand this is a lot of text going against all the rules of
slide decks. But here it is. So this is some sample language that you could add to
a freelancer agreement, like a 1099 agreement or an employee agreement. or if you
have a vendor that you're hiring, right? If you're hiring an agency and they're
going to be your editor, your thumbnail artist, your music manager, your video
manager, channel manager, right? Somewhere in the supply chain of your IP and your
content, these are some things that I would have them promise, right? That they're
not using AI in a way that undermines copyrightability. It won't infringe on third
party rights, right? So they need to be careful about where, what AI tools are they
using? What are those data sets trained on? You know, and this, I understand people
might be like, well, I have no idea. Well, then that's why we need to be careful,
right? That's why we need to be thoughtful because we need to make sure that we're
not using a data set that's going to be really close. And now our work is too
close to someone else's work. And not only is this not copyrightable, right? And
that's a problem. Now we have another new set of problem, which is that we might
be committing copyright infringement, okay? We might be actually too close to the
original source material. And so, and I get this is hard because AI is kind of
black boxes right now. But that's why we need to be careful. We're using good
tools. We know where the data sets come from. We're like looking, you know, and
doing checks online. And some of this is easier with like reverse image searches,
right? You could check to be like, oh, this image we thought was, you know, public
domain or royalty -free, it's not. So don't use that in your video, right, if you
don't know where it came from. And then this one that people won't train stuff,
that they won't license things. They will be careful about terms of service and the
tools that they're using. And that the big one is indemnification, right? Lawyers, we
love, are indemnification. Identification means and hold harmless means if there's a
problem, you'll all solve it. No, If there's a problem, it means that like Vanilla
Ice, that this person will cover that problem. They will fix it. They will actually
pay for the legal fees to fix this issue because that's what it means when they
stand behind and they rep and warranties something in a contract, as they say,
here's what we're doing. And if we have a bigger problem than this, then we'll
stand behind it. So the other question I'm getting a lot from a lot of my clients
and people online is should you license your content for AI training. So here's some
pros and cons. I can't make this choice for you, right? But here's some things I
would consider. Some people think it's inevitable. So might as well get paid for it
anyway to train it. You could set up some boundaries and maybe at least have a
hand and where it's going. And maybe you're rewarding, ethical, opt -in use of people
to train your data set. You may even have a long -term relationship, right? So Right
now, YouTube's terms of service, they prohibit third parties from scraping their data.
However, there's good evidence, i .e., you know, proof did a whole new story about
this last year, that, you know, there was a whole data set that was trained on
YouTube videos, right, on titles and subtitles and descriptions. So we do know that
it's happening. Are people getting caught for it or is this going to be a class
action lawsuit someday? You know, again, lawyers are going to lawyer. This will all
get worked out in the courts eventually, but you have to kind of navigate in the
means.
their platform, right? Be careful about perpetuity and sub -licensing with these
agreements, right? I don't love those terms, right? Transparency, what are they using
it for? And don't believe someone who's like a nonprofit and then going to turn
around and sell that data set, which is what happened, which made what a lot of
people mad, right? And are the royalties real, right? If this company goes belly up,
then there will not be any money from you because you can't, you know, squeeze
money from something that doesn't have money. So if you get one of these agreements
or you're considering one of these deals,
use, right? This is also sometimes called digital replicas. We're probably going to
hopefully get a federal law in the next few years, giving everyone a publicity right
here, right? Civilians and celebrities and everyone in between because we're kind of
going to need that with AI. We don't have one yet. And so we kind of have state
law claims that are all over the place. So these are some sample red lines that I
would use in terms of if I was going to narrow this contract and put this in a
tighter box to protect ourselves. This is what I would recommend. Again, not legal
advice, just information that's helpful. So you want to take a screenshot of that.
That may come up helpful as you start to maybe have these conversations or get on
discovery calls or are talking with your other colleagues and creatives and friends
about these opportunities and pros and cons and what's going to be their best fit
for you in your channel. Okay. All right. Let's talk about fair use, right? Like
Enigo Toya says, you keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think
it means. A lot of people talk about fair use. A few people know what fair use
actually is or use the term correctly. So, and it's a question I get a lot.
And the stakes are high if you get it wrong. So that's what we're going to talk
about it. So fair use is tricky. Again, like the AI copyrightability, it is a case
-by -case analysis, which means the only person who can tell you, hey, you have fair
use is someone wearing black robes in a court of law. Anyone else is just trying
to give you a good, good forecasting, hopefully based on good solid legal principles
that we have, which are not very much, especially in the digital age, okay? Us
lawyers, copyright lawyers, are very, very hungry for some more fair use law,
and we just haven't gotten it. So the Supreme Court keeps punting. hate that for
them. And fair use is only a defense to copyright infringement, which means you rely
on fair use, made your whole channel relies on fair use. Say your reaction channel,
okay? Someone, you know, strikes your video, you fight it and they're like,
I think I'm good. Say it even goes to court. Your fair use is a defense, meaning
you're still going to have to hire an attorney. You're still going to have to spend
a lot of time, money, energy, litigation. No one wins litigation. You just survive
litigation, okay? And there are a real cost that need to be understood, right? And
it's a very misunderstood principle overall because, you know, even if you're innocent
infringement, it's still infringement. And infringement, if you lose, the average
copyright suit is around $278 ,000, okay? Those are big stakes. And it takes at
least a year. Sometimes these are multiple years, right? Statutory infringement, which
means someone created something, you used it, you had access to it and used it, and
you didn't have permission. That's all it takes. It's a very simple formula. That's
$150 ,000 per work if someone can show that that happened. If it's willful, meaning
there's a pretty good chance that you knew it was wrong and you did it anyway. If
they sent you a cease and desist and you still did it, that can even go higher,
up to $250 ,000 per offense, right? This, these are high stakes, right? It's high
stakes poker. So here's kind of our fair use spectrum. So the safest way is that
you only, you create and own all your content. You do not use third -party material,
right? And if you do from someone else, you license it, you make sure you have a
commercial license under, you know, under the terms of that, under creative comments,
right? It really is in the public domain, which doesn't mean what you think it is.
It doesn't mean that it's just on the internet. It means it was created before
1929, okay? Old stuff, right? It doesn't fall off the truck of a website truck,
right, in Russian. And then you have a contract, you have a clear contract chain,
IP chain of title protecting it through the whole way in writing. Now, the opposite
end of the spectrum is going on vibes, right? And vibes mean that you have to rely
on fair use. And these are our reaction content, reaction channels. And I understand
there are people who have built tremendous professional and financial success on these
models. And so it would be easy to look at them and be like, see, you can do it.
And you can, but it's still on shaky ground. Because again, unless a judge has tell
you that you have fair use, you're hoping that you fall into that category, right?
And it's a case -by -case analysis. And so it could really come into each video
there's a legal line and an ethical line, meaning something could be lawful but
awful. And so you need to understand personally what's okay for you to use. And
then what do you feel is like your ethical boundary or fence that you want to go
below it? And then maybe what's your personal boundary, right? And hopefully legal
should be like the floor of behavior, but not necessarily the ceiling. And I get
that gets into very personal ethics of how you and you approach creativity and your
process and using other people's work. But that's just something to consider because
I've seen people not putting into this and it hurts, it can hurt them in the long
run, right? So here's some clean processes for you and your team, right? You know
the source of your content, right? Anything that you're using, you know where it
came from, didn't fall off the truck. If you created it, you got a contract
covering it in writing. If someone else created it, you have permission to use. If
someone else's name, image and likeness is in it, right? If their NIL is in it,
you have a release for that, okay? If you can see anyone's face in your content,
please have a model release, media release. They're interchangeable, okay? And if you
don't have this, then find another piece of media, okay? That's the safest and
cleanest. So my fair use tips would be, and this is, again, if you're going to go
on that spectrum and you want to play in the fair use play box, the sandbox, okay,
here are my tips. These are Brittany's tips, okay? Chop your media up, okay? Use
small clips spaced out instead of a big, don't use, you know, a 10 minute clip of
something. Use like five seconds or less if you can. There is no magical amount
where you're like, oh, if I just keep it under, you know, the AI won't check it
or, you know, Paramount won't care or Warner Brothers. It doesn't work like that.
But In general, shorter clips are not going to make his people as mad and likely
going to be that you're adding more creativity yet. I would give credit, right? It
doesn't cancel copyright infringement, but it's a professional courtesy, and that's
what happened in legacy media. That was more commonplace. That's what we get from
news media, would always give credit to the original work, right? And it would say
where we got this from, right? And kind of like a courtesy title. However, I would
not say no copyright infringement intended because it goes back to that willful,
right? Now we're saying we kind of know that we're infringing and we don't want to
say that, okay? So do not put that in your descriptions. That doesn't help you at
all, okay? Make sure you're transforming your work. Add commentary, criticism,
significant creative mixup, collaboration and choices. The more that you do all of
this stuff, the more you treat this like scrapbooking, right, versus photocopy, the
safer you're going to be. And remember, remember, remember, it's not a defense that
everyone is doing it. It's not a defense that I didn't know because guess what?
You're creative, so you're expected to know. And platforms or courts do not have to
be consistent, accurate, or timely with their enforcement of fair use. It means that
person A on YouTube could have gotten away with this for years. And unfortunately,
it's just bad luck and the music stops on you in your video. Okay. So just
remember that as you're investing and thinking of your long term of how you want to
build and building on IP that you can own, right? I always say you want to build
on land you can own versus being a squatter, right? A creative squatter. Versus like
you look below in the land below you, you can't own, and you really can't own
stuff when you're relying on fair use, right? Again, you can own your contribution
to it, but the underlying works, you're always going to be relying on this. So it's
just something to take in consideration in terms of risk and how risky of a person
that you want to be. Okay, let's talk about our third bucket that we're going to
move to, and so we have time for questions, is going to be independent contractors
versus employees, right, growing our teams. And this is an issue I see coming up a
lot because of a little thing called misclassification. And misclassification,
again, another fun lawyer word, means that we have, you think that you have hired
somebody to be an independent contractor in your business, right, a 1099er, okay?
This is a freelancer. This is an editor, a virtual assistant, a videographer, a
producer, a thumbnail artist, someone who's editing, write subtitles, or whatnot,
whatever it is. And you think they're a 1099. They even think that they're at 1099,
but you know who disagrees? The state of California. Spoiler alert, it's always
California. Not always, but like a lot. And the reason this is a big deal is that
if you get this wrong, if you think someone's an independent contractor, but another
state disagrees with you, then the risks of misclassification can be pretty severe,
to negotiate and settle that. So, you know, if you get one of those letters, don't
just pay it, please. Please call me. Please email me. And we'll do what we can to,
you know, to come to the rescue for you. But this can be a big problem. And
that's only the tip of the iceberg, because we can also have problems with
intellectual property assignment, right? That can come at that. And so the big deal
is that if you think someone's independent, it means they have the right to control
the manner and means of work. Okay. And this means they really need to be like
running their own business and you are just hiring them as a vendor. And that's how
you need to think of it in their head. And that's how they need to think of it
in their head. In fact, you should not just be paying them every two weeks like
you would an employee. What you should be doing is they should be invoicing you
like a vendor would. And then, oh, here is my bill for the services you have
rendered to me at editor agency for the last two weeks, right? And so,
and there's other things, other, you know, bricks we can put on this scale to try
to balance this out. A lot of it come from the contract that we set up and the
writings. And this is why I recommend working with the lawyer to make sure you have
strong independent contractor agreements and employee agreements, because we're trying
to really bolster our case in terms of which lane are we in. Is this person, an
independent contractor or a W -2 employee, okay? And it also means that if they're a
1099, it is critical that you have IP language in what we call work -for -hire
language, okay? Because it means you are not protected by this employee doctrine. The
employee doctrine says, work for hire, says, hey, if you hire somebody is a company
and they make cool stuff in the course of their job, you own that stuff. That's
automatic. That's default, okay? You do not have that with 1099 contractors, which
means, and we already talked about how stuff needs to be in writing to transfer IP,
which means that if you hire 1099s, you got to make sure you have a good solid
1099 agreement, right? It's literally in their name. Independent contractors should
have a contract, okay? And there's certain things that should be in that contract to
protect. Now, what happens is like this is kind of a sliding scale. And so, you
know, you hire someone as a 1099 and they start working more for you and they
become a bigger part of your business and you're giving them more projects and
they're working more hours and they start dropping their other clients and suddenly
they're your right hand person they're working 40 hours a week for you let's just
call a spade a spade that person is not an independent contractor that person is an
employee and hopefully your lawyer has an eye for that hopefully your accountant is
maybe looking out for that but in case they're not let's not have this slip through
the cracks make sure that you're putting them in the right bucket and switching them
over to be an employee, okay? And that means that, yeah, you can ask that they
don't work for anyone else. That means you can control more than the manner and
means of the work. It means you can give them hours address code, right? This is
generally people who work on site. I wouldn't say it's impossible to have contractors
on site, but it's way less likely. The type of people who like come into your
facility who come into your office, right? If you have a physical office, those are
probably employees, okay? And so here's kind of a hiring checklist that I want you
to think about as you're hiring and growing your team. Okay, like I said, you need
an agreement, whether you're in either lane, you need a written agreement. But they
should be different agreements and make sure you're not substituting one for the
other. If you just found one on the internet or got one from a friend or in like,
you know, some other business coaching group or Facebook group, right? Make sure it
just didn't come from Google Law School or, you know, some chat, GPT junk, and
you're not sure what's in it. Because you need a strong agreement that covers IP
ownership, is a big one, okay? You need to make sure that you have some NDA
language, either a standalone NDA, you know, a non -disclosure agreement or
confidentiality or baked in your agreements. I usually like my baked in. And in our
line of work, especially if you are doing stuff that's going to have high profile.
you want to make sure that you are understanding and complying with basic employment
law. And here's a biggie. You need to comply with law where you are based and
where your person is based, both. Okay. So this means even if they're remote
workers. So you need to know, and that should be part of your hiring process, is
understanding where this person is based, where they're going to be working from. If
they're a digital nomad, you kind of need to have somewhere in the U .S. where you
would say they would have nexus. It's a little bit similar to our sales tax
conversation that we guys that we had your guys is training. But you need to be
complying with both state laws in terms of overtime, breaks, workers comp, this is
for employees, right? And so make sure that you're not, you know, that's a blind
spot for you. Document, document, document, okay? This is especially if you are
worried about performance issues or just want to have your ducks in the row and
want to prevent the best defense possible to employer law and to employee issues in
terms of retaliation and employee lawsuits, the best defense that you have is
documentation. This means you have regular performance interviews. And you talk about
standards and expectations, right? And if you have a conversation that's like this,
that hasn't been recorded, you do a follow -up email. Hey,
just memorializing our conversation, I want to make sure we didn't forget and you do
a quick email and get a reply from them. It means that they sign, you know,
employee handbook and policies and all the rules that you have covering your butt.
It means you hired in a compliant way. And it means if you have to terminate
someone, you are terminating them in a compliant way. And so if you don't have any
experience, if this is your first small business and you haven't been an employer
before, make sure you're getting some help here. Please get, you know, do what you
do best and hire out the rest. Make sure you're not going in blind because there
are things that you need to do in the right way. Even if you're in an at -will
state, you need to hire and fire in a correct way to protect yourself. And like I
said, some of these kind of compliance things are you need to have HR policies and
support. You need to have an employee handbook. You need to comply with overtime,
minimum wage laws, breaks. You need to have unemployment insurance. You need to have
workers comp. You need to have labor posters. Again, I know this is weird if you
have a remote workforce. It means you put them in your employee handbook or like on
your Slack channel or like an intranet you might have with your routine. You need
to have harassment discrimination policies. Some states are harder to hire people in
California. And so if so, there are going to be some additional steps. And this is
something you need to take a lot more seriously in terms of your risk management
because the consequences could be a lot bigger for you. So, hey, so that's a quick.
I know hiring is a big thing to undertake. And, you know, again, I don't, my
intent here is not to scare you guys, but to just give you some tools so that you
can navigate this. And I want you to be able to grow your teams with confidence,
right? But it's especially important that you navigate that contractor to employee
switch, that upleveling that might come in your business and understand that it's,
it's not as simple as just putting someone on payroll to make them employee. There's
a lot of other things we need to do to close that loop. And so make sure that
you're getting some support and that we can do that in the right way. So, okay,
those other things that I talked about today. And I know I left some links with
Justin in that I've got some creative resources in terms of I sell digital contract
templates and whatnot. And we have the link for that because I have, you know, not
everything I realize needs to be custom drafted by me. So like your website
policies, a strong independent contractor agreement, for example. I have an AI legal
kit. I have a kit to help you register the copyright to your videos if you want
to start doing that, especially for like your big videos, right, or things that have
gone viral and that are, you know, your number one. And a lot of other resources.
And then the other resource that I have for you guys is, I'm offering anyone who
is in, you know, channel channel jumpstart who sees this, right, can get a free 30
minute call with me. And so if you have questions, if this is brought up stuff and
you really would just like the chance to chat with somebody, I'd love to connect
with you guys. And so we'll have those links, but we'd love to open it up for
questions. Awesome. Really quick, just want to jump on that one. Brittany, thank you
so much. That was amazing. And yes, an email will go out with all the links.
So you guys have them there. So please, please, please look for the email that's
going to come out once this is I hope.
Hi, Joanne. Hey, sweetie. I have a quick question. This is so helpful.
Thank you so much for doing this. Okay, my daughter's a paralegal. I actually took
a screenshot, a picture and sent to her. I'm so grateful you're doing this. Anyway,
my question is, when I'm making my videos and whatnot, sometimes I use B -roll or
images from Pixabay. Is there anything to be worried about doing this? Yeah,
so Pixabay, it should be fine. Whenever you're using another site, right, I just
want you to check their terms of service and make sure you understand what license
you're getting and it's the right time, especially because there have been cases, and
this has happened before where people seed things, either purposely or not. Like,
they put things on those websites, and now people think they're royalty -free and
they're really not. And so, you know, it all goes back to, like, using credible
websites people
that I go through and we're looking at using B -roll vectors, you know, any kind of
third -party media. Yeah. Awesome. Thank you, hon. Yeah, you're welcome. Hey,
Daniel, you're up.
Hey, Brittany, thanks so much for doing this. My question may, I don't know how
relevant it is for others. So if we need to put it in a private call, that's
fine. I work in more than news space right now. So using the,
using pictures and video that I find, you know, I know there's a whole different
loss up for public figures and things. Right. So how safe am I in doing,
I do aviation news. How safe am I in, you know, grabbing photos and videos of
incidents and newsworthy items? Yeah. And that's hard, right? Because, you know, we're
in this tough area where it's like, well, you know, news stations, they got to have
a pretty, you know, pretty wide fare use, right, for like news commentary criticism.
But now we're liking this. Well, are you at boarding like a new site? But like
there's there's a commercial interest to it. So something that my clients that are
in this space is they will use a service where like they'll get clips, right? And
they'll license that from them. And if that's not practical or suitable for your
kind of content that you're going to need, then I would go back to some of those
other practices that we talked about. Use short clips. Use a photo, right? Understand
that the longer that it is, the more juicy it is, right? And the more, you know,
that you're hurting the commercial impact of that original work. And that's really,
because fair use is a four prong balancing test and I didn't want to overwhelm you
guys did that today but like the most important of those prongs that courts have
said is look if the way that you're using this thing means that no one is ever
going to buy the original thing then like that's probably not fair use you know and
so like that's I think where I would always come back to in my mind is like look
is anyone going to still watch this like this person going to record this news like
you know are we are we contributing to a dead internet now because of that and so
but But it's hard because it's going to be case -by -case and balancing. And so, but
those are some of the principles that I would have to kind of guide, yeah, your
decisions. All right, thanks. Yeah, you're welcome. There we go. And then Jacob,
it's your turn.
I got like 37 questions, so maybe it's a good idea to ask later. But a few
questions. So we do some videos with like my kid plays in the band. Do I need to,
I try to just focus on him, but if there's other kids in the background, do I
need to blur them out? Yeah. If the other kids in the background, best practice
would be blur them out or get a media release for them, you know, kind of have
them sign a blanket release that says that they sign overrides. And because if
they're minors, you got to get their adults, you know, their parents to sign as
well. But the rule is that, you know, if they can be public, you know, if they
can be identifiable, meaning like the back of the head, you're probably okay, but if
you can see a face, that's identifiable. Now, if you're doing like a giant crowd
shot or something where there's not a expectation of privacy, you get a little bit
more license there. But, you know, with a tighter shot of a ban, for me, and
especially if they're minors, I think you've got to be more careful with minors
here. You should be. I would get, I'd probably get permission, though, or blur them
out. Okay. And we just did a video shoot inside a bunch of different stores.
are we going to have an issue
a lot of people aren't doing that. I know people just walk into stores and they
film, right? But you're, that that's, you know, at any right, they could ask you to
leave. That's certainly within their rights and their terms, right, in terms of their
premises. You know, do I think Target or Walmart is going to sue you? Probably not.
But if this was a business, again, where you're making a bigger impact as your
channel grows, the best practice would be to get that beforehand and to get a
location release. So, yeah. Thank you. I may schedule a call for the other 12
questions I have. Okay. Thanks, Jacob.
Awesome. Let's see here. Those are our hands that were raised. Let's see if we got
any other questions in the chat.
Okay, Justin asks, I've got an LLC for my real estate business, but not my channel.
That feeds it. Would it be better to have two separate LLCs and a contract between
the two? Yeah, this is a great question. So whenever someone wants to decide if
they want to share an LLC or not, you got to consider a few things. Sharing an
LLC means you share liability, because now we've put everything, an LLC is like a
little safe room, right? It's a bucket. And so if they're together, then they share
liability. So real estate's not a very high risk business, but if real estate
business is more visible or is making more money, I would maybe not want to share
that. If there's any chance that at one day you might want to sell one or both of
these businesses, I would split them because that's going to have to happen before
you have a sale. You can't have businesses that share assets and liability, your P
&L, your books are going to be all messed up, right? And so that's something to
consider. And then, again, I always look at the risk category, right? I say, like,
look, if you have like a graphic design channel, that's pretty low risk. And then
if you do like Bachelorette, you know, rock climbing adventures, very high risk, very
different risk category. Don't put those together, right? Or if one has more money
than the other, if one has more assets than the other, right? That we really want
those siloed. That's going to give you your best chance of protection. Now with that
comes a pain because if you silo businesses and separate LLCs, your bookkeeping needs
to be separate. They cannot mix money. That's called commingling and that can pierce
the corporate veil. And so it does have some administrative burdens on it, but
that's kind of the risk analysis I would do.
Awesome. Okay. The next one is Amber, if a business name LLC has the word Google
in it somewhere, are you Googlable or Googleable brands? Could that stand up in
court? Yeah, I wouldn't recommend having someone else's trademark in your business
name because you cannot use someone else's trademarks as a brand name. Now,
most big companies monitor, and they monitor the web, they monitor LLC databases, so
that could squeak by. But in terms of like, I don't think it's a good idea, and
you could get a cease and desist. Google could have a problem with it, and then
they'll just make you redo everything and have to reset up your whole business
foundation. So best practices are picking a name that's unique, one that's available
in your state. And then if this is also going to be your forward -facing brand
name, which isn't always the case. Sometimes we pick a boring name. Like I have
Brittany Retell LLC, and then it just owns a lot of different businesses that I
have and operate, right? You can have that. You can have a boring LLC name and
then have DBAs that connect it to the public. But those connecting names to the
public definitely need to be cleared from a trademark perspective. And I have a lot
of resources on my website, on my Instagram, Brittany Rattel, and also in creative
contracts. I sell like a trademark search kit so you can go and do those clearance
searches on your own branding and stuff yourself. Or you can hire me to do it and
I'll do the full trademark clearance and package. And that's a big part of my
practice is doing all the brand protection. There we go. Brenda Blanco. Brittany,
so what if I get a location release, but say I'm in NYC doing man on the street,
would it be best, would it be the best option to bring contracts along for the
people being interviewed? Yes. How about those passing by very specific public spaces?
No exception of privacy. Yeah. I mean, if people are passing by the shot, I
wouldn't worry about them. You know, if they can kind of see that you're filming,
something you can do, and sometimes people do this from man on the street stuff is
they'll literally like have a sign. And they'll be like, hey, I'm recording. If you
get in like you're giving your license, like, wear a sign or like put it, wear a
sign or like put it on the back of your hoodie or t -shirt. But for someone who's
actually going to be face in the shot, I would, I would have an electronic release.
There's waiver software you can do, put it on your phone or your iPad and have
them sign right there that they're giving their permission. And that's also how, by
the way, how people always used to do those candid camera. You know, they would do
the candid camera. It would be real, candid. And then after they would get the
release. And if someone doesn't sign the release, you can't use that footage. So
questions kind of that I decided, it depends on where they live, depends on where
you live, it depends on what they're doing for your business, right? But if you
find yourself saying things like, they're my right -hand person, I couldn't do my
business without them, if they're working full -time, if they don't have any other
clients, you know, if you're exerting significant control in their operation of how
they're doing their job, if you have significant training that they have to do,
right, instead of them like running their own business and they're just providing
service to you, if all of those start to step,
or people who do pure fitness workouts will include in their description box a
disclaimer. For someone who's potentially doing more like vlogs or challenges, is that
disclaimer needed or if I'm ever showing a workout? Yeah, that is really common.
And having worked with a lot of people on health and fitness, we call that the
WebMD disclaimer, basically, like not intended to diagnose or treat any illness
disease, you know, please consult with a physician before healthcare practitioner
before starting any workout. I think it's a good idea. You know, does it need to
be like on the screen in terms of like a title card in the beginning? That's kind
of at your discretion. It couldn't hurt, right, from a legal perspective, but a lot
of people just put it in the description and have it there. But it kind of just,
again, depends on like how much risk are you doing, especially if you're in, you
know, higher, more sensitive with more exposure. If you're working with women who are
pregnant, if you're working with the population that are working with children, or
your content is kind of talking about, you know, solving or curing adjacent,
right? In terms of if you have anxiety, do this. If you're suffering from heart
disease or diabetes, here's my workout routines for that. Like, you need to be a
lot more careful. And so I would definitely work with an attorney to kind of go
over some of your marketing language, here are best practices, and kind of review
the whole pipeline in terms of your language to make sure you're consistent and that
you're not at risk for some claims. Because that can bring up consumer product
safety claims, that can bring up FTC concerns. Your state attorney generals can even
get interested or better business bureau. There's definitely some compliance issues.
Health and wellness is just special because we're dealing with people's bodies and
that's risk here. So, yeah.
Thanks. Awesome. Well, Brittany, thank you so much for jumping on this call. And
everyone, again, there will be an email going out once it's posted. We'll post it
on the tool site. And then there'll be links there where you can schedule that 30
minute call. And also where you can get access to, well, you can purchase her
courses and everything. And there's a jump started discount for all of you. So
awesome, Brittany, Again, thank you again, and we'll see you guys all on the next
call. Have a good one. Bye -bye. Thanks, Justin.

PT2

Welcome, everyone. Super excited to have you on this special training.
And I'm really excited because there's a lot of things happening here on YouTube.
And what I love is I've been around since day one of YouTube and I've seen things
evolve and I've seen opportunities come and go. And it's been Very interesting.
And so before we get going, I want to just kind of have a conversation with you
all. And then we're going to get into some training. And then I want to be able
to answer your questions. It's really important for me. But before we get going, I
want to introduce Justin. Justin, if you wouldn't mind if you're by, I don't even
know where you're at. But if you wouldn't mind jumping on, Justin is actually
someone that works With me, we actually have an agency that we work together.
He's actually the president of that agency. And we literally move from,
you know, going to one -on -one with our clients to one -on -mini.
And so he actually helped us put together a Channel Jumpstart, which is a 12 -week
group coaching program that we worked with Thousands of different creators. But
Justin, I want to just kind of share with you or have you share with everyone.
Some of these people are meeting you for the first time. And as we're going to
have conversations, I want them to know kind of your DNA, your makeup. And then
also, too, I want to be able to have one concise point so that you can actually
understand that the team that we put together to help train you is elite.
So go ahead, Justin, take some time. Awesome. Thank you, Daryl. Fun facts about me.
I've been working with Daryl for just over five years now, and it has been an
amazing opportunity coming in to this YouTube world. And over those five years, I
have grown from one position, now is the president of his company, overseeing
everyone that comes through our program called Channel Jumpster, and all the YouTubers
just over about 1 ,200. And then from there, we have different tiers with mastery
and inner circle students and get to work closely with them. Then we have our
channels that we own outright and also the ones that we partner with get to work
with so many YouTubers across the board on every niche out there and just really
help people excel and grow and maximize their potential at bringing great content to
the world. That's what Daryl has envisioned and stoked to me in. I love it.
I love what we do and what we're training today is actually in concert with kind
of our core principle. Our core principle is we literally want to elevate creators
to take the opportunity with the creator economy. And when Justin came in, had a
lot of experience in training, had a lot of experience in coaching, But he didn't
know YouTube. And so one of the first things I had him do is like literally
transcribe every phone call that I was on just so that he could start learning
these consults and things are there. And then two, if you look over his shoulder,
you can see there's a gold play button there and a silver play button. He earned
those things. Like if you really look at it, you know, I pretty much want my team
to know what it means to be a creator. And there's times that I know for a fact
that Justin wakes up at three or four in the morning to freaking get the upload
ready to go to that channel. Isn't it true? Like, isn't it true? It's true. It's
the love and the grind of YouTube, you just, you fall in love with it. And it
consumes you in a positive way. It's so great. It's so great. So anyway, Anyway, I
want to introduce him and then we'll have Brayden jump on. Braden's over operations
for our main company and Braden's background. So, Brayden, want to kind of introduce
yourself and explain the background because it has been super relevant for the
training for today. Yeah, for sure. Thanks, Darrell. So, yeah, I'm on the operation
side of Darrell's company. And actually, before this world, I was in AI working on
machine learning research, parallel computing with the graphics cards, and actually
training AI to understand people and understand their emotions and really get what
we're trying to say to the computers, right? So that's what I was working on
before. Wait, wait for some. Huh, that's interesting. Well, we'll get to that in a
minute. Right. And so, yeah, there's a really great bridge there from what I was
previously doing to what we're talking about today and really just helping elevate
creators to be able to expand their reach, expand their brand, expand their mission,
really. And yeah, so it's been an awesome marriage of operations and tech, which is
the two things I nerd out on. Yeah, and one of the big things that, you know,
where I go is I want to surround myself by the smartest people that I possibly can
in areas where I'm not the smartest. And for me, I've been working with AI It's
2013, and knowing Braden what he was learning and experiencing at this other company,
I'm like, man, he would be a great product fit because some of the things that I
do is like really understand audiences, really understand people. We want to localize
it as much as we can. We want to actually understand intent. And here he's doing
it on some groundbreaking things in AI. And then you're able to see the explosion
over the last year of just what's happening with AI. And for us, this is actually
the first real tool that we're recommending to our list,
and then we're going to be promoting it very heavily because that tools around AI,
but it's more about localizing and getting a bigger reach. And so we are introducing
other tools coming this year that is very,
conduce it with the creator economy and it's going to help you assist you make
better content and really, really have an impact. But this is the first one we
really wanted to feature because it's been kind of the bottom of my heart to get
this content actually out to the world since pretty much 70 % of all YouTube views
are actually outside of the United States in a different language. So it's like,
hey, why don't we capitalize on the full market. And so really love Brayden coming
on and help shepherding your experience here. So the first thing I'll let you know
is, you know, part of this is like you're not alone. We're going to be training
you along the way. This is not a tool that's like, hey, you got it and forget it.
No, no, no. This is a journey that we're taking together because we know if we can
make you more money, this tool will be valuable for you. And if it's valuable for
you, it actually brings money in for us. And it's a great win -win. And for us,
it's like, there's so many people that are able to monetize new channels really
quickly based on their older content and or double their views just by adding
another language. It's pretty crazy what's happening. And so I'll be tapping on
Brayden's shoulder pretty much these times when we need a little bit more clarity,
and then two, we're going to kind of lock in. So first off, I want everyone that
has the tool that's been using the tool that's used it, put in the comments right
now, really, really important to say, hey, I've done it. And I want to kind of
talk about those that haven't used that, we're going to kind of go over it a
little bit. And my whole thing is I get passionate about a few things,
and one of the most passionate things is predictable consistency that can lead to
scaling and growing. Like, that is so important for me. And I can't tell you that
pattern of consistency. And so for me, if you want to really make it in the
creator economy or take it to the next level. It's like, how can you streamline
things that are predictable and do it in a way that it becomes just kind of a
process with minimal effort? And so this tool that we're showing here right now is
all about it. So I'm going to share my screen real quick, and you're going to see
my dashboard right here. And so the whole goal of this,
for those that used it, don't use it, we want simplicity. Simplicity is a really
important type, but we want it very intuitive, and we're still taking feedback.
We're in, you know, in feedback mode still. And the feedback is really important.
We want to make sure that it does it the right way. So we're taking very slow
steps in that direction. So you guys just being on the call is like,
hey, you're the first here. And there's so many opportunities. I think this
opportunity right here is pretty much the next gold rush on YouTube. And so we're
already seeing that right now. And I believe it's going to be a lot more
accentuated where it's going to shrink the world together, which is great. I think
you're going to be able to impact and have like -minded people all over the world
in different languages. Okay, so for this, I want to kind of start breaking down
the, just kind of the flow of things. So when you come in, if you're going to do
a new project, you get new project. And right now, we have to put a YouTube link
in, a URL, or you put the handle for the channel that comes in, or you upload.
Now, it is on our roadmap, and it is to tap into the YouTube API,
to be able to pull all this information in, is on our roadmap. We've heard you.
We've requested that personally. It's just doing that type of work with API.
There's some approval processes and then getting the flow down. So we're in the
middle of that. And so you'll probably see by the end of the year sometime that it
will be a lot easier. But realistically, just copy and paste a URL is not that
difficult, right? If you're just like hitting that, you can hit as many that you
want, and it will go. Now, the cool thing about it is, then you can select the
language. Now, this is the biggest mistake that I found when people are actually
uploading the, the, the, the videos.
Brayne, you had your hand raised. I don't know if that was on purpose if you
needed to talk. Yeah, yeah, just real quick. You can copy and paste from an Excel
sheet in a column and just drop a bunch of videos in one at one go rather than
having them doing the time. Yeah, great. So in a column, drop it. It's good to go.
Thanks for that clarification. I did not know that they got that working. That's
great. And then also that Discover tab has videos, how to walk through and do
everything just in case they forget. Yeah. And I just want to go on this one real
quick just so that we're going through. So it doesn't matter if you have like five
videos, 10 videos, you know, whatever that is. We're just going to be able to put
it up in the queue here. One of the biggest mistakes is they just hit Spanish, and
then just go like this, they just select Spanish. Right now, that's not the best
thing. What I want you to do is if it ever has the little worldview right here,
this little icon right there, I want you to click that, because then it gives you
multiple options. You know that this has multiple options. So right now, we'll still
work on the UI, but I know that people are just hitting Spanish -Spanish. I want
you to hit Mexico Spanish. And the reason why I want you to hit Mexico Spanish is
because most of the views in Spanish is literally from Mexico. So like,
let's hone in on that, right? And, and for me, the same with Portuguese, I would
do Brazilian Portuguese and Portugal Portuguese, even though they can understand each
other. It's just Brazil is the third most biggest country that has the most play
buttons. India is number one, U .S. is number two. Number three is Brazil. So, like,
for me, it's literally all about that. Now, I'm here to tell you,
you might say, hey, I think Deano was saying the tech team told me that it would
be Mexico Spanish. It could be true, but I'm just saying, I want it to be selected
because I don't know it at auto -selects, You know, and if it was auto -selected, it
should auto -select it. You know, so we'll get with the tech team and stuff from
there. But the reality is once you're going through, I would 100 % do Spanish and
Portuguese because those are some of those spoke languages in the world. It's in the
fastest growing areas of the world. And the number one place is India, and most of
the people would prefer to watch YouTube in English in India versus Hindi. And so
for me, I'd say, just get those two languages going. If you're just getting started,
if you want to go into it a little bit more in depth, you can. So for me, once
again, I would do it. If it's French -Canadian, I'd just do France. A bigger,
bigger opportunity for people that speak Arabic. I prefer the United Emirates just
because there's a lot of people in Dubai in areas that are really, really active in
YouTube. In fact, in the creator economy, that's where the most of money is right
now, along with a lot of other things. And so I'd want to target from there. But
you can see, you can go in depth on all that. Now, if I had the URL in there,
it's going to be ready to start processing.
On this, this is what I love is you can toggle between tabs and say, oh, here's
the greatest thing here. And you could go in and you can start scraping it, which
is fine, or you can upload. It still keeps your setting. That's what I really
If it's like, hey, this is German, I'm doing German, let's go ahead and switch that
out. Other than that, you just kind of hit transcribe and it goes. Now, what I
want to do is kind of explain what's going on in the background without getting too
nerdy, because you guys don't want too nerdy. You just want something to work really
good. But the first thing that it does is it's basically capturing everything that
was being said and it's capturing the transcription and everything, and it's just
trying to understand what's being done. And this is being done in real time. But
every time you do that, the AI is getting smarter. So the more that we upload,
the more that we do, the AI is actually getting smarter. So if we use the language
model on Spanish, and it's the most used, And right now it is.
And so it's probably the smartest one that we have when it comes to that. And it's
going to keep him getting smarter. Our goal is to get to like 99 .9 % accuracy on,
on intentionality and so on. Do you want to take a nerdy side, Mr. White and
nerdy?
About the accuracy. I literally don't think that people know that that's your
nickname. Yeah, it is. It is. White and nerdy is what I call them. So do you want
to just kind of talk about the learning of what they're learning?
nail you, right, nail the clone of yourself in that other language. So when it
comes to adding more data, the idea that just we're increasing the, if you think of
it as a brain, right, the synapses, we're increasing the connection points so that
when the AI runs into something that it's not as familiar with, it has more
pathways to provide a solution. And so the more data that we're able to feed, the
more different types of data and the high quality, low quality, close to the mic,
far from the mic, different accents, all of those things add together to build a
better model that's going to more accurately be able to reproduce you in any context
and in increasing accuracy. So I want to break this down just so that we can
actually look at what we're talking about. So here's my VidSummit presentation that I
did on stage this last year, noticed that I pretty much got it in all the
languages that we offer. I mean, there's maybe a few that we offer that I didn't
do. But the AI is smart enough to know that I actually speak differently when I'm
presenting to a large auditorium full of people. And so this is,
let me make sure I share sound on this so you can kind of get that. But check
this out
oh that i am obsessed to truly understand the viewer now the biggest thing for me
was in 2012 youtube went from a view -based algorithm to an a i they did a test
that's what youtube does they do tests the test was off the charts after After the
AI was able to learn. Okay, so you can hear kind of my nuance,
my cadence. That's how I actually present when I'm on stage. When I'm on a webinar,
you know, live stream, it's different. But that's kind of my cadence that I have
and I go from there. Now, that being said, let's hear the presentation in it.
Now, the AI is going to not just replace my voice of my clone voice, but it's
going to look at the environment that it is in. And it's going to do it with the
intentionality for that.
Y ésta fue extraordinaria. Una vez que la inteligencia...
like someone who was born in Mexico but it does sound exactly like the doving voice
actors like the Mexican guys who do the voices for like super clear like a little
bit extra clear so yeah it sounds yeah but but that's the that's the what we went
for so if you notice I when I do my presentation I was speaking in English it's
very pronounced it's very distinct, right? But did you catch the reverb? Like, you
could actually hear it. Yeah, it sounds like I was there. Like, wow. Yeah,
but the point that I'm getting at, and I'll show you a different example of when I
speak differently, and it changes based on the environment. But that's what we're
training. And for us, notice it says Darrell's stage. So anytime that I'm on stage,
the AI is selecting that. It's like, oh, I can select the type of things,
or it's going to auto select it. It's, hey, it's on a stage presentation. It's
behind a live stream or it's out and about. It's pretty amazing. Do you see that?
Yeah. And then I do want to, I do want to kind of get some clarification.
So you could tell that the AI, like if you were not to look at it or hear it
and know about it as being AI, you couldn't tell it was AI, right? No, I would
say it's an actor. Okay, it's an actor. And the actor is trying to get tonality
and everything at that start, right? Yeah, like super extra clear Spanish. Yeah,
exactly. Now, I'll show you a different example where we speed it up. Like, there's
just ways to do this. But for this one, it's more about the tonality of the
presentation of the way I do it in English. However, I'm okay with,
hey, I could tell that they maybe not be a native speaker or they're a little bit
more precise on that, you know, just kind of like voice actress would do in movies,
which is fine, and I'm okay with that because it's about authenticity as much as
possible. We want it to sound like the creator, and then we also want it to have
the nuance with the creator. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay, so that going into
it, let's do another one. Yeah, thanks, Mark, for jumping on. We're going to put
you back into the group there.
But I do believe it's really understanding what's going on. So I think somebody said
Turkish.
Was that, yep, okay, we'll try a Turkish. Do you speak Turkish?
Do we have someone that speaks Turkish? I thought I saw that. Who mentioned that?
Maybe I need to open my chat on that one. Ah, all right. Mr. Cobin. Mr. Cobin.
Let's hear our Turkish, man.
This is a good test because I don't think we've ever had someone speak Turkish on
it. So let's hear it. Bill, I'm actually, I'm really isleager to understandmaya
takintilie. In 2012, YouTube, and YouTube, system -day -al algorithm sayısına dayalı
algoritmadan yapay zeka 'ya geçti. Test sonuçları inanılmazdı.
Yapay zeka, ne yapması gerektiğini öğrendikten sonra.
Amacı istiğinde... -Hadi sen benim Türk 'üm nasılsın?
-Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor mu? -Bakıyor
mu? -Bakıyor mu?
Okay, let's unmute him real quick, because I really like people that speak other
languages, kind of speaking into it. So let me just give you, Mr. Coben, you know,
you're able to talk. Hey, hey, yes. How's my Turkish?
Surprisingly good. Yeah, surprisingly good. I will double what Mark said that it
sounds like a voice actor is doing the job for you, which is, I guess, what you've
gone for. We've gone for that, like, because if we're trying to do it, it's me. We
don't want to be deceptive in any means, but we just don't want you to be taking
it out of context, right? So, yeah, it doesn't sound like a robot, if that's what
you're asking. It doesn't sound like a computer has done it. It sounds like you've,
somebody's sat there and, you know, when you watch like a big group and then
somebody's translating into is here live. It sounds like that. Yeah, that's great.
That's great. We love that. So, okay, love it. Love it. Okay, so I'm going to go
ahead and move on. So for me, we'll do one more language. Who else speaks another
language? We'll test us out. Okay, of course, we've got to do Japanese. Now, I
don't know how well Japanese is, and I'll be honest with you, because it's all
about modeling and so on. So I'm going to do that because Yasuko's on here.
Please, let me know how my Japanese is here. "Stychoa'
"Stychior of the "'Sighted the change is, "'2020' YouTube' "'by -says' from AI -cho -o
-a -I -I -I -I -I -I -Sho -Doh -RigO -Ris -M "'koh -lis -Kkohska.'" "'Kare -Legger was, the
result was Meggheza -Mash -kata. Yes,
how was it? How was the Japanese on that one?
We'll see if she... Let's see.
We'll see if they add into it. I don't know if it's okay before or they're doing
it from there. But one of the things I want to do while they're responding is
there's certain words that they use the word, the English word in it. This is how
smart the AI is. It knows when it is. It's not, you know, for us, it was more
about, you know, certain words like green screen is green screen in German,
but it, you know, are in some languages, but it's not in others. And so it's like
really, really under that, understand. It was great. It was more for for written
format. And I can tell you as it's starting to learn and get the nuance in the
context, we're going to get modeling down. But we haven't had a lot of people use
the Japanese and so, you know, it's, we're going pretty good there. Taylor,
let's say, Tim Chung wants to hear Chinese. Do we have Chinese on this one? I
don't know. Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay, here we go. Do we know if this is Mandarin I
would assume it 's Mandarin that I did, probably, maybe, soon.
Yeah, it 's Mandarin. 请 了 解 我 痴 迷 于 真 正 理 解 观 众, 对 我 来 说 最 重要 的 转 变 发 生 在 20 12 年 You Tube 从 基 于
观 看 次 数 的 算 法 转 变 为 人 工 智 能, 他们 进 行了 一次 测 试。 这 就是 You Tube 的 做 法,
他们 做 测 试, 测 试 结 果 非常 出 色 在 人 工 智 能 学 会 了 他的 目 标 之 后 就是 预 测 观 众 想 看 什么 OK,
所以, 对 于 我 来 说, 挺 有 趣 的 我 为 何 我们 在 这 段 时间 内 的 努 力 和 努 力
是 因为, 我 有一 项 专 辑 我 非常 兴 奋, 它 是 最 兴 奋 的 电 视 节 TV show of all time.
We actually beat out Baywatch for that title. And for me, we put out a lot of
social content. So I want it in multiple languages. And so for us, that's what
we're trying to do. Now, the big thing is it's more about, you know,
the most complex types of shoots. And sometimes it's getting multiple people speaking.
So like for this one, for example,
I'm going to just pull this in, but we might have five or six or seven people
speaking at the same time. And we want to weave it in that everyone kind of has
their voice, everyone is able to clone. And so anytime you might have 30 people
speaking into it, but it'll identify that one speaker and say, okay, this is the
speaker for this is, you know, and you can kind of mark it down. But the ultimate
thing is, like, once it starts cloning, you can go. But it's like super, super
crazy. Okay. So for me, it's about that. And it's understand the tonality of it.
And it's kind of rolling from there. I want to show you this test because you saw
me speak on stage. This is what I did on a live stream. And I played it like a
live stream. And then I switched out the audio, but it was just, here's just two
minutes of it, so you can kind of hear this. For a movie or a TV show you want
to do with social content, but it costs a lot. Or the process doesn't just get it
right, or the translation is not good. But if you want to speak Spanish... So
notice my tonality is quite a bit different than I do on stage, I want that. So
once again, let's go ahead and do it. For a movie or series, you want to do it,
but it's very caro, or the process simply not only does it or the traducion is
good.
So for me, it's really fun to go through this. And then two, iterations of where
it's going, you will see more and more that you're going to have lip syncing so
that they're going to say this stuff from there. And then, too, we can actually
modify it so that it starts to cut off some words mark. So it's like cutting off
some syllables of stuff. So it really sounds more But for us right now, it says,
I would rather have voice actor because that's kind of what we're going after at
this moment. And then I would assume as we get the modeling down, we'll get it to
be a little bit more crazy. But we'd have to have the lips seeking to actually
make that work. Okay? So for me, that's kind of where we're at.
And so we'll use Roberto Blake as an example. I brought this on. Some of you were
on that live stream. But I just want to pull this in, and I want you to
understand, it doesn't matter what subject your channel's about. It could be about
very specific medical things. It could be about very specific technical things.
What the AI is doing is giving context of what you're speaking about, and that's
the modeling that we're working on. So right now, if you look at this original
thing for roberto he's talking about green screen and then also some uh some um
some text stuff so let me just go ahead and do this this background is actually a
green screen and today i'm going to teach you how just like that you can do a
perfect green screen effect in adobe premier pro let's get started go into adobe
premier pro and take your green right so you see mr roberto doing un gran trabajo
de eso. Ahora, vamos a ver y vean en español. Y en el momento, puedes ver que la
palabra Adobe Premiere Pro no se traduce, pero eso es lo que dicen en español. Se
dice que lo hacen de esta manera. Así que vamos a escuchar esto. Este fondo es una
pantalla verde. Hoy les enseñaré cómo lograr un efecto perfecto de pantalla verde en
Adobe Premiere Pro. Para empezar, abre Adobe Premiere Pro y coloca tu material de
pantalla verde en la línea de tiempo. Asegúrate de tener una línea de tiempo.
to do it. Now, Brayden, is that just the quote marks? I can't remember. It's
actually a new feature. So everything up into this point, AI, has just been doing
intelligently, but now we've expanded that to where if users have specific words or
phrases that they want to preserve regardless of the translation, they can do that
through the custom vocabulary action. There you go. There you go. Now, let's do
German real quick. Now, notice that the word "Green Screen" ist nicht zwei Wörter
als eine, aber lass uns das hören. Dieser Hintergrund ist tatsächlich ein "Green
Screen". Heute zeige ich euch, wie ihr ganz einfach einen perfekten Green Screen
Effekt in Adobe Premiere Pro erstellen könnt. Legen wir los. Öffnet Adobe Premiere
Pro, zieht euer Green Screen Material in die Zeitleiste und achtet darauf, dass es
gut beleuchtet ist und eine saubere green screen Fläche hapt. Ich empfehle. So, you
can see that right, right, right real quick on that. And so, for us, it's, it's
like we're really going to go really in depth on this. And so, a lot of you,
this is where, if I was in the English speaking country, this is where I'd be the
most afraid is this right here. So, this is one of my inner circle students.
He's from Germany. Er hat das größte Gesundheits -Channel über in Deutschland. Und was
war verrückt, war er im Gespräch. Das ist so, wie er in Deutschland spricht.
Das schädlichste Lebensmittel, das dein Herz zerstört. Es gibt ein Lebensmittel, das
ihr Herz massiv angreifen kann und vermutlich schlimmer ist, als Zucker - und Omega -6
-Fettsäuren zu sagen. Das kommt aus seiner normalen Channel, so dass ihr das hört. Er
spricht Englisch. Er spricht Englisch. Er spricht Englisch.
Listen to his English. The most detrimental food that wreaks havoc on your heart.
There exists one particular food that can severely assault your heart and is likely
more harmful than both sugar and omega -6 fatty acids when combined. It would be an
absolute catastrophe if this ingredient were present in your face. So let's stop
right there for a second. So this is the cool thing, okay?
So there's a lot of people on the call that are in my inner circle and group
coaching and stuff like that you know Dr. Ulrich, doesn't it sound like him?
It does. Like when he speaks English is this. Now, what did he say, Braden? He's
like, man, like, what was he saying about his English? Honestly, almost mad at me
that the AI spoke better English than he did based off of 10 minutes of training.
So, yeah. But that's where it's like,
Es como, hey, es, es él, y se siente como él. Y estoy bien con, hey, un
accentuador germán para español o cualquier, o inglés. Pero el español,
yo creo que tiene una pequeña cosa. Vamos a jugar eso real quick. El alimento más
dañino que destruye tu corazón. Hay un alimento que puede atacar su corazón de
manera masiva. Y probablemente es peor que el azúcar y los ácidos grasos omega -6
juntos. Y sería realmente fatal. That's pretty fast, but in the same sense, kind of
could tell, you know, kind of can tell on that, which is great. So now, for me,
this is kind of what it's all about. And we're just at the beginning stages of
this project. And so you guys are the very first people coming in. And so my
encouragement to you is test a tool. You have credits. Even test it where you bump
up for a month and try a few things on it. We've had amazing success. Now, there's
a couple of things that you need to be aware of. Some of you don't have the multi
-language audio enabled yet. Now, YouTube does this from day one.
They basically say, hey, we're going to do a test. And they've been doing that test
probably since, I know, four years ago, five years ago, the multilingual audio. And
they they started to roll it out to their top creators. So if you have a senior
partner manager, you can get a multi -language audio. If you don't, some of you
already have it because you have some type of connection, whether you're on the beta
testing or whatever. But they are rolling it out this year. And I can tell you
right now, they're on the verge of expanding out. So I think within the next two
years, It's going to be rolled out to everyone. Now, you might say, well, wait,
wait, wait, what about me now? Well, that's where you can request it. You can go
be on a list. And we'll get you all the details for that. You know, in the coming
weeks, we're going to actually have some very specific training. I'm trying to get
YouTube to come on and answer questions for us, but we're holding off just to make
sure that everything's ready to go on our end with Ditto, and then I'll invite
YouTube over. And when YouTube comes over, hopefully we can have a system if you're
using Ditto that they'll get us a little access quicker if needed. If not,
you're good to go on just doing the other channel related. If you do another
channel itself, then what I would say is, guess what, there is a couple things that
we notice that YouTube says, oh, someone ripped off your content, put it over there,
and we want to verify it to you so you can't monetize until you prove it's you.
And we've had a couple of those flags. We know the proper way to do that to
submit and so on. So that will be coming up in future training. So, um, but
Brayden, I mean, is there anything else I need to show them? I just wanted to go
over just kind of the UI and the experience of, I guess the only difference would
be, um, that I want to show you is this. And, and before Brayden comes on, um,
you can set the metadata. So If I put the title, description tags, it's going to
auto translate those. So like whatever we do here, it's going to translate it across
that, all of them. And you can see right here, I can say, hey, translate the meta
information. Well, you have to set the meta information first, okay? But you're able
to do that. Then after that, you can come back down here to download. So you can
do MP4, MP3, the Flack file. Flack files are really important if you're going to
edit it differently, kind of separates everything out. And then you can just download
the vocals. It will just actually separate the vocals, send it down to you. So all
you're doing is throwing the vocals in and replacing it with the vocals in your
other edit. So anyway, Brayden, anything that we're missing here? Yeah,
just a couple things. So, yeah, Jason brought up a great question. Can we use these
videos elsewhere? The cool thing about ditto and this product is that you can use
it anywhere. Anywhere that you have video content, you want to dub, you want to go,
you can use it. So yeah, just a couple other things, just kind of out of just
managing it, you can create folders. So if you notice up there where it says
previous projects and you've got a folder button there, you can create folders,
organize them accordingly. You can set them by typically what we see is by batches.
And then to the far right, there's that stack of papers over there, Darrell, that
you can also do group translate and group downloads. So you can actually select
multiple videos of a certain language. You can select multiple videos that you want
to translate into a certain language, and you can do it all from there. And then
if you click into one of the videos, Daryl, another big part to understand as well
is that Ditto's not just providing you the title description and metadata translated,
but if you go to the transcript in the top right page where there's that download
icon, you can also pull down the closed captioning files of the video in each one
of these languages. So, they're in the transcript area above the timing. Right.
What I'm saying is, I don't know if I'm able to do that because I uploaded this
and it's not the transcript. Are you saying that it does a transcript, then you can
pull it down? Video player. You see where there's that arrow. What I'm saying is
you're able to just download the captions? Yeah, you can actually download the file
that it'll generate for captions. So if you just go a little lower on the actual
transcript page, like down below that, maybe an inch. Sorry, maybe this is a UI
thing. There it is. Oh, you're almost there. Can I draw? Is that a thing I can
do? I don't know.
I'm going to jump in really quick. Just go up an inch with your mouse and there's
that little box. That's why I hit. It was already out. It did pop up. So you can
download the SRT file and that's got all the timestamping information for you. So
rather than having to rely on YouTube's auto -generated captions, Ditto also provide
you that as well for each of the languages that you dove into. Great.
And then if you have - Oh, sorry. Go ahead, go ahead. If you have any questions or
things that you want to know, in the bottom right, there's a chat that connects
directly to us and the engineers over at Ditto, the little blue icon there. And
then in the top right, the Discover tab has trainings, has best practices, best use
cases, and everything else. Yep. Yeah. Yep. Great. Let's go ahead and open it up to
questions. I think Deanna is on here. She had a good question. I want her to ask
it in this setting. And we'll kind of go from there. So is she on still?
Maybe.
No.
She not on?
She might have to accept it. But do you want to read that question, Justin? Do you
see it in the Q &A? Yeah, here's her question. This was our question.
Separate channels versus multitrack. We have been doing testing. Justin said we should
move our German channel over to our multi -track and have everything in one place.
My question is, we are monetized in German now. If we shut down that channel and
we use multi -track only, can we expect to see an uptick in revenue on our English
channel? Is there a way to view those metrics on our English channel? Did that make
sense? Having everything in one place would save a ton of time, but don't want to
lose the additional revenue that German has been generating. No,
I would do it on the main channel. If I had MLA access, I'd do it on the main
channel every time. Unless I wanted to create a personalized experience that
everything was switched out, not just switching the audio file, but the videos. If
there's any graphics, it would be German. If I want that localized experience, I'd
probably keep it on the main channel. I'm sorry, on the German main channel. But if
I didn't want to do it, I want to make it super easy. I just do it with the
channel that have the MLA. So
great.
Let's go ahead. And you guys might have questions. I'd rather unmute you because
there's like I'd say I'd rather have a conversation than to Justin Reed that. So
McKay, you are up. So if somebody wants to unmute him, let's kind of have that
combo.
All right. I think I'm working right. Can hear me? Yep. How you doing, man?
Now, there are some services out there that you can do the lip syncing and all
that other stuff. They're pretty okay, but they're not to the level.
Like, you can only do like two minutes of it. They don't be like full podcast, but
it is on our roadmap. It's not that far away from our point of view. But if you
have MLA, you can't switch it out. you only can switch the audio file and it'll
probably be at least three years before they allow you to switch out video files
because it deals more with the context of how YouTube operates.
And I can guarantee you that's it's harder to do that. Yeah, yeah, that makes
sense. For us right now, I don't think that would be a huge need. Honestly, if
it's dubbed over, that's fantastic. Yeah, I think it's just to start somewhere and
then as gets better, you switch it over for sure okay thanks appreciate it
okay who's next
uh okay i guess i'm picking him um uh jason sorry i unmuted i was muted justin
has a question i just unmuted him and then we'll go to jason okay great Hey,
Daryl, sorry, just as a follow -up to Deanna's question. So I know that now we're
going to take, so we just take the German channel down completely you would
recommend, move everything over to the multi -track on their main channel. But the -
That is the safest way to move forward with YouTube, because that's where they want
everybody to go. Okay, and then I know that this answer is probably yes, but then
it will, actually, is there a way to see specifically what the RPM or the CPM on
just the audio tracks level? Yeah, like where you're, where you're, you know, part
of my group, you just go to advanced mode. And under advanced mode, you're in that
report of everything. You can go to, you can actually select language type and it'll
tell you the RPM there. So you know exactly how much you're making on that.
Fantastic. Thank you, Daryl.
Awesome. Jason Perry, you are up. Hey, Darrell, Braden,
Justin. First of all, enjoyed Bid Summitted, Texas. Can't wait for the next.
I was just wondering, you know, is there plans? Is there a revenue sharing program
or affiliate program so that as we're out here sharing the love, we can share in
the love? Yeah, so right now there's not. In our roadmap there is.
It's just about the timing of it and getting everything ready. What we're trying to
do is do the heavy lifting where it's at. But once we go in,
it'll be a smaller sample size and then we'll open it up. But it's going to take
a while to roll that out. But yes, we're in the process of. And in fact,
it's been an active conversation for the last four months and it's just getting it
down to where we can do that. So where you're connected with me, brother,
like we'll take care of you. Trust me. It's just more, you know, we've got to get
iron out a few details. And when we're ready to roll it out, you'll be one of the
first people that we talk to. So appreciate it. Yeah, appreciate it. There we go.
Our lost, your turn. Yo, I thought you were eating lunch or something. What's going
on?
Oh, he's still... He's still... I'm back again, but he's like...
Yeah, I just had launched, so I missed like everything. It's okay.
We recorded. You can get a copy of it. But do you have a question? A question. I
had one before, like, I heard that YouTube is like going a bit,
I don't know the word with it, but like on AI, they're getting this new option or
function. I don't know that you have to classify that it's... That is correct.
Anytime you use, yeah, in times if you use AI -generated video content,
you're going to need to do it. And then, too, if you're using AI -generated audio
content. They wouldn't view this as an AI version. It's a dub. It's integrated in.
But if you're just using text to speech and going there,
you'd have to classify that on the upload. You have to mark that that it is an AI
generated video. Okay. So it's not like something bad will happen when you like use
this AI voice from Dito dubbing and No, no, this is all what YouTube wants.
They want it translated in because you've already done the hard work, you know, and
you've already edited. It's just switching out the audio file. But that's great. That
is literally great. So you don't need to mark it as altered content at all.
Yeah, it's looking really great. Like this tool is really awesome. I tried it with
my video on German. It was English and then I Thank you.
it was one and a half week ago when I was laying in hospital. You want to check
out on his? If it was kind of choppy, let's just make sure. And we're in the
process of doing a lot of this stuff too. That's why we're not blowing it out to
everybody is we want to make these small tweaks. Yeah, just in the chat function on
the web page, please just chat in the issue you're having so we can mark it and
track it.
You mean the video? Yeah, like what I would do is go to the video itself.
Like whatever video that you did, go on the page right here for the project and
say, hey, had this issue with this video. And they can course correct it.
They can learn from it. They can go, you know, manually do something so we can
make it smarter. Okay, I will do this right after the stream. But yeah, thank you
so much, Daryl, like, you helped me so much in my journey and just wanted to
mention that. Dude, we're just getting started, brother. Yes. Crazy what you're doing.
Yeah, I appreciate it. Appreciate it. There we go. Jeff Ostriff, you are up.
Hey, guys. How are you doing? Hey, Jeff. Okay, so I did my video the other night
on the Baltimore Bridge Collapse and I went in and translated it to Spanish Mexico
and one thing that I've noticed with these is that when I go and look at the
stats, the audio shows that it got like a thousand playbacks on the audio track,
but the actual
the text the, what do they go? Close caption got like 10 ,000 views and it was
specifically in the Spanish -Mexico text, so I know that they were watching.
So does this mean that they're not watching it in their native language? No, they're
watching it.
So let's take a step back. The tools that they give us to track multilingual is
not good yet. So there's not really good tracking on it. So what we're going to
look at is give it a little bit of time. There will be stuff that sync up, but
there are people that prefer to watch it in English with a close caption. I don't
know your audience. I'd have to look into it very specifically on it. And then
those that want to have it dubbed, they still have that option on what their
preference is. So generally there's certain, like, I don't know this for a fact,
because like I've lived in another country before and for a period of time. And
then, too, I travel a lot. Like, you go to some areas and all they want is the
caption.
would prefer Spanish, you know, the Spanish audio that would build up where it was
just more triggering on the people like to close caption. Yeah, I've started to
notice a few comments in Spanish too. That's great. And that isn't going to be a
problem that YouTube will need to address is how do I see my language comments
first? So there's a few UI things they're going to need to fix on this. It's going
to bring up some interesting ways and then to be able to respond back to them and
have translated responses is going to be big.
Perfect. Thanks. All right, man. Hey, Randy Johnson, your turn.
are you there?
Maybe he's not in there. Yeah, I'm here. Can you hear me now? Yeah, there we are.
How you doing, man? Yeah, I had to allow you to unmute me. So anyway.
Yeah, good afternoon, Darrell. I just wanted to say thanks for all the support
you're given to creators and how much you're a giving person. I just appreciate that
and blessed you for it. Okay, so I started the tool i know a couple weeks ago
maybe it's been a month now you did a training and you uh i saw that one and
that's what led me to go ahead and subscribe for a month you know so many a month
so forth but anyway i've actually done some videos and uh i have one particular
video on my english channel that has been about august to now it's got about 10
000 views and it's gotten me a ton of subscribers and so I took that one and I
already had an existing Spanish channel I hadn't used yet so I just went ahead and
used ditto -dub put it into Spanish and put it on that Spanish channel and it's
been up a month and it has 45 views no subscribers yet which brought me to the
idea of first of all is it viable and advisable at this point to create multiple
channels or just wait on YouTube to, you know, expand this out to other users.
Yeah. So that's probably the most solid question that you could ask me at this
time. So it all depends on your, your circumstances. I want to share with you.
I was actually going through kind of my history on YouTube. And I,
when my daughter, my oldest child was in high school, I wanted her to stay busy
and have work. And so we actually had a Spanish channel and a Portuguese channel.
And it was very geared to teaching people in Spanish, kids in Spanish English.
And then we flipped it where it was teaching People,
you know, basic things in Spanish and stuff like that. Like numbers and stuff like
that. And I was just like literally yesterday going through the library and I'm
like, oh my, how interesting that was. And that was like, like, man, it's almost
been 10 years, 12 years. So like I literally have built millions of subscribers in
in different languages.
And then when you break it down, it's just like, what are you trying to do? I did
it because I saw the opportunity. I saw there was a huge opportunity. There wasn't
a lot of competition in that. And if I put some great quality content in there, it
would pick up. But you've got to realize that you can't just upload one video and
expect you to do this thing. It's more about having a content strategy behind.
And so that takes, it's just like any other things, once it starts to understand
what your audience is, then it starts to recommend. And then it's going to look,
how much content do you have in your library? So for me, that's kind of like an
individual choice of where you're at financially. Is it worth the investment to? And
will the investment pay off? Now, if the thing would be, hey, I just want to stay
up to date on all things AI, and I know it's a part of the future. However, this
is going to take, you know, five hours of week, you know, to do this on this
other channel where I would put my five hours a week on the main channel, and
money was more of an issue in the sense of where you put your money in time, I
would say put it on your main channel and then just wait to get with the MLA. And
the only reason why I say that is because if the channel's really popping right
now, then it's like, oh, let's supplement it. It's just very easy to supplement it,
right? If it's just like you're still, I won't say struggling to get views, but
it's like you're not at the point where you're like, hey, this has been a great
month. And, you know, if it stays this way the rest of my life, I'm set for life,
you know, or whatever that is. But it's just more an investment of where your
content's going to live and breathe. So. Right. Yeah, because it occurred to me that
what I have is achieved on my main channel now isn't automatically going to transfer
over to the other channel just because I dove it there. Totally, totally,
seriously, totally different audience and totally different value prop.
So it's like every culture is different. Right. And there's some commonalities of
humanity into it, but every culture is different. Oh, thank you very much. Do you
want to know something interesting, Randy? Yep. Yep. Okay. So when we started to
build out Mr. Beasts' global strategy plan, the Beast Brazil,
I was just down there, so I know this for a fact, but they actually prefer his
Brazilian Portuguese channel. And they love it. So they have a choice to do it.
And a lot of them speak English, but they love it because it's just They don't
have to think. They don't have to try to stretch themselves. Right. But they watch
it generally two or three times once in Portuguese and the other one in Spanish.
I'm sorry, in English. So they'll watch watch it and then slip it in English
because they already know what it's about. They throw it on. And that's helping them
learn English. And I was down there.
And it was like, oh, my gosh, you do the Chosen and oh, my gosh, Mr. Beast on
YouTube and this whole thing. And, you know, My son, even when he was in Brazil, a
remote part of Brazil, they're like, hey, weren't you in a Mr. Beast video? He's
like, what the freak? You know, it's so cool. So for me, I would just say keep an
eye on it and then, you know, as it makes sense, then invest where it makes sense.
And for me, I'm telling you, this is part of the future. I believe AI is part of
the future for content creation, if we use these tools correctly, and that's where I
come in as trying to introduce you the tools that I think would be used correctly,
show you how to use the tools correctly, then it's just more about timing with you.
Right. Because the ways that YouTube presents videos isn't going to change. So you
have to use the same principles like you taught in YouTube formula and everything
like that. Correct. Correct. It can improve based on the AI understanding better the
audience, but it's all about people, right? And it's all about context. And so
knowing that there's this huge opportunity out there, there's just not a lot of
content, that's where this is a huge opportunity. If you're the first to market or
your first close to first market, you're going to reap the rewards and a loyalty
that goes with this. And so literally I was at Like, let me just show you the
tweet because it's like, it's pretty funny. I'm all down in Mexico visiting,
doing stuff for the Chosen. We had this huge premiere and you can kind of see it
here. We had thousands and thousands of thousands of people in Sao Paulo and Rio.
And then I went, and this is actually a former student of mine right here.
And check this out. So we were there And they have like this studio and stuff like
that. And I don't know why it's not loading. Let me hit it again and see if we
can get it to load. But okay, well, guess what? Twitter doesn't like my video or
something. I don't know what's going. It's the algorithm. Something like that,
something like that. But here's the Diamond Play button. They got this in a year.
Like they got 10 million subscribers at a year you know so for me and then i i
kind of go over um you know kind of go over the shot of all their goal play
buttons and i i think they'll rival me in brazil with with my goal play buttons
which is super crazy so yeah well thank you so much for taking the time to answer
yeah for sure man yep all right uh one last question brain then we got to go
jeston we got to go last question usaku you are up
great Great. Yo, how's our Japanese, man? Oh, my gosh. You can speak Japanese.
That was amazing.
So great. I'm still waiting for my YouTube formula to be translated in Japanese.
It's supposed to be done. I haven't seen it yet. Oh, no kidding. Oh, I don't think
to check it out. Yeah. So, but it was more in a written format. You're very
masculine, But it wasn't really like the presentation format. So, yeah. Yeah,
I'll be happy to check it out for you. Yeah, no, for sure. And I, we do
appreciate it. It's like these small groups. Like we want feedback, right? And we
realize more the Latin languages are more solidified into it,
but we are working on it. I know that, you know, I know that it's on our
partner's radar of this new language model that's coming in. And we're really close
to pulling that. And that will help with some of the stuff that you're talking
about. So we are aware, but I think we need to be more aware. So for us, it's
great feedback. And trust me, if we need to tap on a shoulder, I'm tapping on your
shoulder. All right, yeah, sure. Okay. Okay, perfect. Well, guys, super excited for
This opportunity, we were able to get together. For me, I just really love the
creator economy. I love what I do. And my whole thing is I want to empower you to
make more money, to get more visibility. That's what it's all about. Like, I had
some of my inner circle people that come to my house. Like, they come all over the
world, they come to my house. And I had some the other day. And it was just so
beautiful to see where they were at three years ago. And we were just talking about
it and see what they were able to build in three years. And they made more money
in two weeks than they did their whole time of being in business three years ago.
It was just like, man, it's just I love it. And then I love the conversations of
building, you know, sustainable businesses with processes and systems and people And
tools, tools like what I showed you here today. So for us, that's what it's all
about. Can't wait for you to really take advantage of this. Just know my heart is
to help you succeed. And that's why we're here on this training. So guys, thank you
so much. And we'll see you on the next one. Thanks, everybody.

PT3

Hey, hey, there we go. Everyone, so good to see all of you jumping on right now
for this amazing day, amazing opportunity as we're seeing. I'm just going to keep
repeating it until I'm blue in the face. Like Darrell has said,
this dubbing where we're at with the world today and the opportunity to expand and
connect with people across the world he hasn't seen since you know youtube with with
ad sense and giving creators that opportunity this is this is massive uh definitely
way bigger than shorts way bigger than shorts like that's that's pennies on the on
the millions of views this is an opportunity to reach people and build human
connection and and make some good money off of those those uh r pms RPMs and CPMs.
So it's going to be an amazing train. Now, don't forget, as we do these trainings,
they are being posted. The recordings are being posted on the tool site at the very
top. It's exclusive dubbing slash translation training. So this is the third video.
So that will be added. Most likely this noon evening,
depending on where you're located, and it'll be posted there so that in case you
miss it or you want to go back to review or you, you've got somebody, one of your
channel Jumpstart community buddies wasn't able to make the call. You can let them
know, hey, this is where it's at. This is where you can get the recording and
watch because these are some amazing opportune times,
like I said, to connect with people across the world. And I know last week we had
a great discussion with so many with so many creators, some with Multitrack and some
without and seeing some data come in just within a couple of days. I mean, it was
just Friday last week. So what has happened with Multitrack? What are what are views
coming in? What's happening there? And then those that have started separate channels,
what is happening there as well so that we can digest the data and make, as Daryl
always puts, we plan, we execute, and then somebody else in the chat,
go ahead, throw it out. What's the final two steps? Because this is super key and
super vital because we made a plan last week. I know some jump starters have gone
and executed. So now we need to. Oh, I'm not seeing anything in the chat. What a
bummer. Nobody, nobody remember? Why is it set? Oh, it is set that no one can
chat. And now everyone should be able to chat. What a bummer that that wasn't
coming in. There we go. Analyze and adjust. I had no idea.
I got to go and look at that Zoom default there because that's not fun. We love
to chat. We love to connect with all of you. We love to connect a lot more in
person, you know, at VidSummit and those in -person meetups and everything and really
dive deep. But this is fun too. And we got to have this communication. So everyone,
Russell, always a pleasure seeing you, make me smile. Everyone on here.
Ted, Tim, there we go. So, oh, and don't forget, change it from a host and
panelists to everyone. So everyone can see this um yeah jeff great question on the
daily live streaming is it worth it to diddo dub uh are we going to have time for
q and a today we should have time for q and a as well and go over this
information and christopher don't forget host and panelists to everyone because only i
saw hi everyone and i am one person and counting today tomorrow i'll have five of
I'll always come out and I will be I will accept that but um cool that's where
we're at right now um yeah it's an amazing opportunity you know can we do this
let's jump into this all right so um what we do is we've had people go through
kind of the process of testing this out like my whole thing is i know you're going
to have questions we're to do that here at the end but people have actually used
the dubbing software, have been on the last call. We actually had them do very
specific things. And now we're coming back to analyze it. And what we're going to
do is analyze and adjust. So Justin, who is the first person that we're bringing
on? We're going to bring on Pam and Sten because they've done that interesting with
two channels. They've done the Spanish channel and then they've done it on the
multitrack as well. That's great. That's great. Hey, Pam, how are you doing? Doing
well. How are you? Doing great. Is Dr. Stinn with you, too? Yes. Yes, we're both
here. Okay, great. And then I just am very curious. Did you do it in Swedish? No,
well. I knew it. I know it. I think we might have done the trailer.
The trailer we did in like eight languages. Okay, all right. We'll let that one
ride. Okay, so let's get very specific. Pam,
I know that you did most of the heavy lifting like you do. So bring everybody to
see what you did based off of our last call. So we translated the videos and we
uploaded with Arabic and Hindi and German and Spanish to well those first three and
was there another one no yeah those three to the top performer ten pop performers
that are like real time and then some used to be real performers but aren't really
performing right now yeah okay great and plus five so we had 15 videos that we
did. So you follow exactly what I asked you to do, which is, which is great, which
is great. Before that, we translated a bunch for the Spanish channel,
and I also uploaded the audio for Spanish onto the main channel. Great. I didn't
think about the duplicate content thing, but we did get flagged, but we didn't get
taken down. It was just, we got notified. Yeah, let's not do Like if, especially if
you have a Spanish channel, you don't want to do it. Like, YouTube's really
sensitive or duplicate content. So, like, let's stay away from that.
But we can test it, right? We can look at the data and see which one to keep.
You can test it as long as you're not doing the same videos. If you have the same
videos, that's duplicate content. You're breaking terms of service. So should we take
the audio, the Spanish audio down from the main channel? If you've used them in
another video, yes, I would. if it
Yeah, take it around, please. Like, I don't, you know me. I don't like to break
terms of service. That's what you're like script in that line. Okay, so are we
willing to show the results, or do you just want to talk through the results? We
can show them. Because it was 15 videos, and each video is about 30 minutes,
and most of those were not translated. We're Only on like day three or four.
That's okay. So all we need to do is, Pam, before you share your screen, whoever
sharing the screen, just go into advanced mode and then pull up the groups. And
that would be great. That's all I need to see. Do you want to Justin to do it? I
want it. Sure, Justin, just do that real quick.
Why did you show the wrong one? Because it happens sometimes? It does. It will
crump. Ah, ye.
the foot a little bit because all the views are channel views yeah i know it's
it's harsh um we'll talk about strategy on that but let's uh i'm gonna just request
control justin yep just look quick
okay um okay so let's go ahead and um let's do arabit So you say it's only a
couple days.
And all of those languages are actually the same videos, so it doesn't matter. Yeah,
there are too many groups. The Arabic isn't just Arabic. It's all three languages.
Well, all of them are the same. I did go separate just in case we added more that
are different. Okay.
Okay, so it's basically everything. Yeah. Is this the top performer?
And then I just need to get the other performer one. Let's see. The top and then
not. Not. That one.
I'm more concerned with the not right now.
And let's see on this.
we went and compared in more and then audio yeah we'll get that in a second we
don't need i just want to know where the traffic's coming from first
um
okay
It's very, very interesting. Okay, so let me, let me go a little bit deeper.
Let me go, Jeremy,
but it doesn't surprise me. I'm kind of explain. Generally, when you're in a region,
you bring it it into a new language, it will hit people that are in that region
with that language. And that's what I'm seeing happening here on both of those.
Because like just the way that your regular audience is, it's just extending it out.
You are getting views on it. But it looks like it's only a couple days worth of
cut. You said three days. It's been going. Three or four. Three or four? Okay.
Let me go a little bit deeper on this. Let me try one thing.
It looks good to me on that one.
The last one I want to see, because you had some that were being triggered by. Did
you add any to cards at all?
I haven't changed them. I haven't updated them. It was just getting traffic from
cards, you know, very, very specifically.
Yeah, that's just from doing what we're supposed to do. Yeah. Well, That's why I
love you, Pam, because you always do what you're supposed to do. That's great.
That's great. Okay.
So on this, I mean, there's ways to break it down. And what I'm trying to do is
like truly understand the flow. And then the biggest thing would be I'm going to
get the non -performer first. Let me just get the non -performer.
And let me go here. And this is basically the five videos they did older,
whatever.
Spikes like this that gets me, something was hitting, you know what I'm saying, when
it goes that specific. This is the last 28 days. And so that's the day we uploaded
it. It was very weird. It was like that almost a minute, it spiked.
Yeah, which is great. It did what it was supposed to do, right? So the question is
when you really start breaking it down and you really start going over it, it's
like, where's the traffic coming from? And even though that you got a spike,
I want to tell you what's happening here so you understand completely what's going
on, when you added new content to the older library.
I told you what was going to happen. Remember, YouTube's going to re -index it? Uh
-huh. So that's what happened. You got some traffic to it. It was kicking an end
screen. So they were watching a little bit more than a little bit of content, but
you have by audio track. So it's barely going, but all the right signs are there.
So I would assume, based on the data, it's doing what it's supposed to do. Let's
give it some breathing room because we can keep on adding. All we're trying to do
is test to see exactly what's going on where we want to do it in our direction,
right? But it's just like I think you're going to need closer to about seven days
worth of content. But you should see this number start coming up based on that.
Because like from the non -performing and then when we up to the performing, top
performing, well, you'll see this actually should see that. So you're Spanish right
there. It's going to come up. And I want everyone to understand this. Those that
are a part of channel jumpstart, you'll get it. Those that are just part of did it
does fine. But it's more about the active viewership of who's watching what and why.
So this is going to start to compound. And it's going to be start recommending it
out. So I need you to do another, another test, and this is really important,
right? On the videos that you are going to release, make sure you release it on
Spanish on this one. Just you got to do it. Just got to do it this way. And I
would do these languages right here on your newer videos that are coming out, and
it should kick up where your active viewership should be higher visible on the
browse feature. And you should be able to start kicking this in the right direction
from my point of view. Now, these top performers should not have Spanish because
that's some of the top performers are on our new channel. So I need to take those
off. You probably need to take it off. But what I'm saying is regardless of it,
you have Spanish right now. Yeah. Okay. So the new videos will have Spanish.
Exactly. Exactly. And you just need to make sure that we just separate it. Whatever
you're doing on the main channel, you can't do on the Spanish channel. We just need
that. You have some Spanish traffic coming here right now. And I would 100 %
capitalize on it. So you're saying new releases on the main channel. You got to try
it with Spanish. and all these four languages exactly and it's just a new releases
you just put them in a bucket don't make it really easy it's just new videos top
there are top for it's just new videos being released so you're doing the new
videos before you release it you're getting it all set up in the multi -track and
and then when you're releasing it should have a broader reach
okay Okay. Should we do more languages? No. Just four is good.
Yeah. Did you get, did you get Portuguese?
I haven't done any Portuguese yet. In Portuguese. Like, if it was me, let me show
you the graph.
So there's five languages, in other words. Here's the graph, because Pam likes data.
India, USA, Brazil is the top, top viewership. Brazil is coming up fast.
Like, you got to do it. You got to do it. So I would do it there.
So just get Portuguese. Do it on the main channel. You're good to go. All right.
Great. Thank you. great but it's really really important um pam is um i love i
love you in all aspects don't take this the wrong way but don't try to do
everything don't try to do everything i need we need localized testing so you know
exactly what you're doing and and and that's the reason why i don't want you to do
Swedish or whatever we just need to hone this in because once we have the system
in the process and let youtube do its thing it's going to be a catapult to what
you're trying to do globally. It really will. So it's just like, let's really hone
in on this. And it's all about who's watching the content now, active viewership,
and then you're going to give them an option. That's why that optionality is so
important on new videos. Does that make sense?
Yeah. Okay, perfect.
What about the Spanish channel? Did you have any input on that one? Do we have
access to that channel, Justin? Yep, pulling it up in two seconds.
And then, Tula, they have Portuguese, Brazilian Portuguese, and Portugal as well.
Yeah, you're going to do Brazilian Portuguese. That's where all the views are coming
from.
Okay, great. Hey, look at you.
That's so good.
Well, you just barely started that, though. Yeah.
And that's the, that was the push from the channel community tab. Is that what
you're saying? Yeah. And they only went, we only directed them to the main channel,
just to the URL, and then to the trailer, because I didn't want to mess up any
other video besides the trailer. Okay.
Very quick question. Sorry. Man, I wish you would have talked to me before you did
that. Yeah, we got the feedback from the guy who did it for,
you know, the talker. Yeah, we hope Alex did so many community posts. But you're
not, okay, if you're going to ever, if anyone that's on this, I want you to hear
this from my mouth.
Not all channels that are the same. We have different people, different data,
different type of things. Don't do this thing. What you want to learn from it and
then we want to test it. But the way to validate it is what we're talking about.
Justin, did you have a comment question? Oh, never mind. You're good to go. We
learn quickly. We've stopped. Just let's stop that. Yeah. Like, and trust me,
I don't have all the answers to I have enough data to say, that wouldn't have been
the right move for you. I think after you did five videos and had everything ready
to go, I'd probably kick it to one video. And I would have probably said, hey,
Spanish speakers go to this video instead of going to the homepage. And it would
have been okay. But I think on your main channel, I don't know if,
I think Germany, I don't know what language was, it was the second language that
was there. I'd have to go back into the to see that. I'd probably drill into who
has the auto -subtitles coming on in language that's auto -translated. That's probably
what I looked at and I probably did that one first. But Spanish is good. I trust
me, it'll be good for you to do it this way.
Okay.
And what's your posting schedule on this? You're doing three times a week? Yes.
Yeah. Yes. What's your next video coming out? It's Monday, Wednesday, Friday. We had
one this morning, and then it's Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Okay.
Okay. What's going to happen is this? You're going to go through the full cycle.
You're just at the beginning of the cycle. You're going to see come in March, mid
-March. You're going to start to see if we can get another one of these, but it's
more from YouTube recommending it. You're going to be good. you'll be fine. It'll
grow very fast. So, like, you, like, just your content's good.
And, and then, too, I just noticed your, um, see, this is what you, it hurts my
heart. It's like 26 seconds. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. But we, we had some
11 minute ones, um, like the average ratio. That's 11 minutes. That's really a one
minute video. Still hurts my heart, dude. Like, like, like, we sent the traffic to
the wrong one. And it was only like 39 % on one minute video.
popped before. It's going to do the same thing because the retention is actually
pretty decent on this one. Yeah, most of the ones we released after have good view
durations. If you scroll down the list there, you can see they're all seven, eight,
nine minutes. It's all picking up in the right traffic source too when I looked at
it. Yeah, and it's this, the purple I'm worried about. And so we just got to get
it to hit and where it's not artificially done. It's more, you know, YouTube
discovery. And I think you're fine on that. So,
wow. Okay. I do have a question for you about their channels and what they're doing
that I think could help for them and others. Yep. Because he has a whiteboard that
has a lot of, or not whiteboard, well, the whiteboard and um power points would it
be good for him to focus on doing a separate channel knowing that ditto dub here
in the next couple of months we'll be able to translate that stuff on the video
side of stuff versus doing the multi -track what are your thoughts um so i need to
be careful how I say this because the roadmap of YouTube, they want to do the
video embedded where we're going from there. But I do believe if I was Dr.
Stinn and Pam, I would probably do four channels that are standalone where you're
building that out. I won't know that data completely and I won't say, hey, this is
the direction go, but you're already doing Spanish. It's going to build out the
right way. I still need to test on the other one, because if it does what we
think we can do with it, there might be a way we just have to ask a question.
And that question will be,
what about other things besides the content? You know, is there's another path? And
I know that you have a few things that you've been developing and doing and going
from it. And so we just need to look into that vein a little bit to answer that
question. But I would say, let's hold. We got plenty of time. We're going to
continue doing this. I just gave an assignment and we'll make an assessment on it.
But, you know, if it was mine, I'd probably lean towards the standalone channels,
just knowing where you're going. But we won't make that call until I can see the
data. Does that sound good? That sounds great. That's my most vague response ever,
but I just want everyone to know. It's a personalized approach. Like we used Alex
as a perfect example. Why did Spanish? He speaks Spanish. His wife's Spanish. He
understands the culture. He wants his own standalone content. He's able to change out
everything where it is in Spanish. And so it's perfect. It's a perfect example of
what we can do. That's not always the answer for everyone. We need to have you
internalize some questions. But as soon as we have the data, we'll be able to go
from there. So is this duplicate content always going to be an issue?
Or is YouTube going to recognize that it's - No, if you're using Spanish version on
the main channel, Spanish version on the other channel, yeah, this is going to be a
duplicate content.
Yeah, I didn't realize that. Just don't do that. Just just
though, anything that we post multiple audio tracks, we won't be able to post those
videos on the separate channels ever.
What happened was you have a Spanish channel and the moment that you uploaded on
your main channel Spanish, you now have duplicate content. Yeah. So if we now upload
Portuguese in Arabic on our new releases, does that mean you never post those videos
on our Portuguese channel? We're going to make the call if you're going to do it
on Portuguese channel or if it's going to be on this one. Before we do it, we can
pull it off, we can pull the audio track off, and then do a launch strategy.
But once again, like, I can't make that call until I see the data. Yeah, okay.
that answers to the question okay nice thank you awesome next up we're going to
have katrina she's standing in for nils with learn to DIY hello hey katrina how you
doing good how are you doing good doing good so it's a pleasure i get to talk to
you i always just talk to niels so this is i know he This is so much better. I
know, right? So much better.
Yeah. Okay. So you want to just bring everybody up to speed?
Did he bring you up to speed what to talk about or what we're looking at? So we
put 10 current performers on the Portuguese track.
Right. And then also five performers or past performers.
Same thing. So we did that last Friday and just are anxious to see what's going
on. We looked a little bit last night,
but we are excited to get your. Yeah. I just want to see what happened to.
Yeah, look at this. Look at this right here.
Nice. So that's a good thing. That's on your inactive one. So what it did was
exactly what we wanted it to do, which was it re -indexed it and it put it out in
front of people. Okay.
And these were going, I mean, what was the length of it?
When did you guys make the change just a month ago or week ago. Yeah, it was
last, last Friday. Yeah, because look at this right there. See that?
Yes. That did exactly what we wanted. Um, search is okay.
But yeah, that's what we wanted for the old ones. And those were old performers,
but they were just inactive, right? So they weren't some better videos on it. Yep.
See what the videos are. Oh, yeah, yeah. These are great. These are great.
That is trash. Okay.
I want to check one thing before we go into the audio event.
We always want to make sure that we're checking out the viewership of where they're
viewing it. Okay. You should see more, like if you're really heavy TV,
it could move over to more mobile on it. It's just, it is just what it is.
But like, if we can see how they're viewing it, it helps us really end up on that
too. So let's go to audio track here.
So I've been putting some other things on it. So it's just like that. We've got
some Brazil popping a little bit. And that's on the inactive one.
But what I think's happening, and I just want you to understand is these views
right here, they're recommending another video. Other video,
the goal was it was these right here. You see this? that was that's
and then the moment you see this right here it was recommending because it's all
recommending the current top performers but people were actually having the option to
get those inactive ones and they were clicking on it oh cool back to youtube or
whatever oh cool looks good for a week um i think it's going to start compounding
now um did we get did you notice if we got any comments in in Portuguese yet?
I don't know. Nils hasn't said anything this week. I would imagine that if I have
them turned off on my end because it's just too much. I would imagine that he
would have said, you know, that would be pretty exciting. Have him look where he
speaks Portuguese. It's great to have him look a little bit deeper. And then, too,
I want you to notice this right here. It is, you know, they're not watching as
much, but as they come on, you'll notice that they start consuming more on that.
So, like, I think all in all, this looks great. So continue to post.
I want you to do the same thing. So the newer videos that are coming on, have
them translated into Portuguese, and you're putting that out as well. So, like,
anything going new. And then, too, this is where you're, you guys are a little bit
different. I want you to do another 10 top performance.
got to give them content so you have to treat that outside so they have an
opportunity with new videos you have an opportunity to top performers because
YouTube's going to recommend it out to those 4 ,000 people plus you know they just
saw the last video yesterday or whatever it was does that make sense so are you
talking um so 10 10 performers that kind of like inactive or ones that are kind of
puttering along you know like No, you only did 10 that are currently active.
I want you to go through your top 28 days and do you'll have more than 10.
Just give me the other half of it. Okay. All right. Cool. Okay. Thank you. That's
exciting. Exciting. I'm so excited. I can't wait for the day that he can go back
to Brazil and have a ton of fans down there, which is going to be amazing. He's
going back at the It better happen quick. It better happen quick. I'm going there
next month, and I'm going to go eat at a Jedaskeria. I'm going to have their pizza
and have Guadana. I mean, I'm going all in for that. All the things. Do you have
any recommendations?
Do you have any recommendations for Spanish at this point? Should we hold off and
just continue with the Portuguese? I feel like you can do Spanish at the time. The
reason why I wanted to do Portuguese, I don't think it's going to hurt anything
with the same test. Just do the same. Just put it in there. We can start to see
the growth. It's just going to be a week later. But just, it's already grouped.
Just use the same videos. Okay. All right. Great. Perfect.
Okay. Next up, Diana and Justin Hickok.
Hey, Daryl. How are you, Justin here? Hey, how are you doing, Justin? Oh, you just
kicked him off, Justin. Oh, I got the wrong one. Man, rookie mistakes. Katrina's
still up.
There we go.
Justin, I feel like he had been in for me there, boss. Yeah, come on now.
It's because you guys spell your name differently. That's why he's just telling us.
It's an I -N instead of an O -N. He's Just in time.
All right. So let's kind of dive right into it. So you did the same test, right?
Exactly. Okay, great, great. And then two, we should see similar results.
Like, what day did you switch out audio? So we weren't actually able to do it
until Sunday. So the 18th. We were waiting for something to be dubbed. Okay, great.
me i don't know what just happened uh just i'm going to request control again
because it didn't let me have it okay okay
great i'm not seeing a pop up i'm gonna stop sharing oh there it is it is okay
we just see what's happening real quick this No, go for it.
I'm hoping that's one of the videos that we did.
I made the three groups, actually, one that has all of them together, the Spanish
dubs, and then one that's got the top 10, and then one that has the five that we
used to perform that are no longer performing. Okay, so the top 10. Correct. Okay,
great.
Was that new release?
Let's see, got to the, yes, that was a newer one.
So you trust it in a new video that came out? Correct, yeah, it wasn't the top
performers. Okay, no, that's good. We'll take it. It just gives me a little bit of
different data points that we can look at versus everybody else say everybody else
was doing something that was like older but it's still performing and this is just
right out of the gate which got you views look at that yeah
wonder
That's going to be a good video. Like to see, you had popped off, came down, now
it's coming out. Right here. Yeah, see that.
We also added it to the end screen of our latest video that was doing. When did
you do that? When did you do that? That one got released last week. It's the one
that's on the far left uh oh no my i'm sorry it's not it's not in there i
couldn't see the thumbnail it's very similar to them yeah but it's not like what
i'm what i'm seeing is different um
that purple yeah it could it might be it might be
might be Might be.
Okay.
I think the data looks good for me. I mean, just for doing it Sunday, just a few
days in getting that. I think you're good on it.
You're going to just need to add, just the same thing I gave to, you know, Katrina
and Nils, I just want you to do. So anything that you're releasing new, make sure
the Spanish is included in on it. Absolutely.
And I know you were testing it against our German channel because we actually had
already created the German channel that was a separate channel entirely. Would you
say just would we keep that channel and continue growing that? Or do we, do you
think multi -track for everything would be kind of the move we've made towards a
board? I don't kind of the move we're going to break in and look at your German
channel like the German is still performing right it's still going it is and I
actually got a spike the other day from one of the videos um that just do we have
access to that just do we have access to that
negative um Jessica can you share your screen I can't just on time just in
If you can share it. Just go to the German one would be great. Definitely.
Just on time. I want to answer Sarah Frank's question when we go into it.
Yeah, when we get to the Q &A portion, there's been quite a bit of questions. Okay,
great. We got her, Kathy Otter, Russell. I've seen those questions, those three. How
do I access to sharing screen function? I don't have it on this end on my end.
Oh, give me two seconds. I'm going to bring you as a host here.
So it's going to kick you out and then bring you back in and
then make co -host. Okay, now I'm going to share and then we'll go to
Let's see.
Can you see this? Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, that's good. So, yeah, that's the...
So just about a month is basically, I mean,
ish, half a month, I guess. Let me request control.
If not, if it says security settings, I need to do something else. But let me just
kind of try real quick
there's all this video right here uh yeah that was the one that really popped okay
okay that this is a good sign brother like this is a really good sign good
so if your purple does not pop up in your next two video releases.
You got to get like 48 days afterwards. I'm sorry, 48 hours afterwards. I just need
to see what's happening here. If this tends to go up, then we're good to go. Like,
we're ready, we're ready, we're rare. If it stays flat like this, we got a problem
to look at. So Let's just make sure that we analyze this there. It's good that
this is taking off right here now. We just need to make sure that purple line goes
up. So would you say we were doing like one video a day once we took that break,
right? And then we're waiting for you and we talked to you. And so we started
adding one a day. Would you say continue adding one a day? Every other day. You're
doing it too tight. Okay. You need to breathe. You got enough content. You can
recommend it now. Okay. But we need to breathe a little bit. See,
because like, see this spike? Yeah. Okay, that's great. That's your new viewer that
was coming on. We could have got more views if we had a recommendation of it. So
just give it every other day or better yet. Let's do four videos a week and you'll
be fine so just pick your days and you're good to go on that perfect um this is
a good sign right here too just let you know okay getting getting hit traffic this
let's see where that traffic's coming from
who it's not good okay
and forbid And forbid. Oh, sorry. Oh, no, don't worry. I forgot you were controlling
my computer.
This is not the German one, right? So we need to... No, yeah, scroll down further.
Let's see where is it on here. Deutsch. There we go.
Okay.
All right.
See a little bit of this time here.
Oh, that's so good. Oh, I'm so... This is good. This is really good.
This is really good. So, let me kind of explain what's going on for everyone that
was watching me just over the shoulder here.
This traffic right here is...
Well, if I can click on it.
Do you want to hit the C more under real -time analytics? It's just not letting me
do. Yeah, let me...
Okay, thanks. Scroll down, a quick.
See this right here when it comes to all these old things. This is when YouTube's
recommending it out. So YouTube is using the recommendation engine happening, and it's
recommending out to people that are like -minded to do it because they say, hey,
this great video, it's starting to get it. So you're getting that trickle traffic
coming in, but it's also you're going to see your returning viewer. So we just need
to give a couple days, like three or four days, and you're going to have all see
that purple. It should, it should be up a little bit higher than what it is. All
we need is have some movement that is going and getting a returning viewer. So What
I want you to do is post normally on this, like four videos on this one as well
or just whatever your standard is. And just be mindful of what you put next. What
I would do is whatever's performing here, like if you have a similar video in that
bucket, boom, hit that one. And it should lift it
Perfect. Thank you so much, Darla. I appreciate your help. Yeah. No, this is great.
I'm excited for you, for sure. So, okay. So am I. I love it.
And then one thing I'm going to do right now is we've got access to the Fun Squad
family as well. Oh, great. I can just do fair stuff. That's great. All right. First
thing I do is, Justin, it was a pleasure. I'm going to kick you back to attendee.
Justin,
kick you back. It's going to kick you to kick you out and bring you back as
attendee for a moment. And then I'm going to bring Sarah up as well.
Sarah,
there we go. I'm to promote you to panelists and then we're going to open it up
to questions. I know a lot of you have questions and we're trying to help you the
best that we can answer your questions. But like For us, it's all about data
driven. I can just say, do this, do this, do this. But everyone that knows me,
it's like, you have your own individual decisions to make, and I want to give you
enough data to actually have you make the right type of decisions for you. So, hey,
Sarah, how are you doing? You're muted. You have to unmute yourself. Hello. How are
we doing? Good. So I just wanted to update you. We had to hire two VAs.
Oh. I know. Dang it. It'll be fantastic. But it takes like three hours because we
have so many speakers on each video. So we didn't get going.
But we should be able to launch Monday.
So sorry, we're a week behind. But I did want to request one thing. We already had
set up a Spanish channel but haven't launched any content on it so if you're cool
we'd like to adjust so that we're doing those 10 and 5 videos on a separate
Spanish channel and then the three languages that we would do on the main channel
would be Portuguese and then our next um like most popular audiences are in the
Philippines and India so it would be Tagalog and Hindi So instead of doing, go
ahead. Yeah,
this goes back to kind of the initial conversation.
So it's like we got to we got to take slow steps and choose the direction that
we're going. So I'm not opposed of doing it where it's separate channel, whatever.
You can decide your content is good enough that it can translate over into multiple
languages just because of the content of it, the question is going to be is what
you want to build. Because you guys have done a lot and you have a lot going on.
You know, and it's just like, okay, how do we want to handle it? So what I would
like you to do is have more of a global strategy instead of a language strategy.
Okay. You don't have that right now. Like, we need to figure out what that is. And
so You've got to give us enough time to figure out what your global strategy is.
Now, the difference would be is you have multi -track already available. Let's test
that. Okay, great. Let's do that. If we're holding off on the other channel, I'd
rather test it on the main channel first because that's where YouTube wants it to
go. And let's just try to land the plane. The only difference would be is if you
do planning on using your VAs to edit so that it's in natively in their,
the video will be native in their language.
localized channels rather than use the multi -language feature? Would you agree with
that statement?
No, no. I think it's just more from a revenue,
you're going to extend the revenue and you realize that if you're bringing on other
language getting more abused, it's not going to deplete your amount of revenue in
the regions that you're already strong. It's just going to add supplemental revenue
that might have a lower CPM in in those areas. And so for me,
it's it's more what is the approach and what are you looking to do? I've had
people go and create channels very specifically in high CPM demographics and the
channels are performing really well. But like once again, that goes to your
globalized strategy of what you're trying to do. what I know is this, um,
is if you do this right on the main channel and you elevate the views to start to
compound, even though you're getting tons of views, okay, let's put that aside. What
if you're able to get two or three more X? What's that going to do with integrated
brand deals? Like that, that's, that's where the real revenue is for you. Because
the ad revenue, like, yeah, it's there, but it's like that global reach. And When I
say this is confidential, but, you know, when you're asking two or three million
dollars for a 30 second spot of integration, that's what Mr. Bees is doing, like,
hey, great. And how does he justify that? It's the 100 million video use that he's
getting on it. So it's different than, you know, six -figure brand deal versus, you
know, whatever it is. So, like, that's where I says the global strategy, you just
got to decide. And like, sir, you've been around the block a few times and you
understand things happen and you understand the nature of the business. And you've
been on the nature of the business. They're like, oh, this doesn't make any sense
or whatever. What we want to do is like, what is the long term play? And the long
term play is you have a vault of content that's ready right now and you can just
dub it. And so I would rather see, let's do a bigger test on your main channel
And let's figure out the languages right now that you should do. So can we just,
do we have access, Justin, to the channel, and I can tell what languages that we
need to do? So Justin, you might, I mean, either of the two main channels are
fine, but Kids Fun TV is the largest view, you know, has the largest view.
And you'll take the same approach on the other stuff.
And while he's pulling that up. Yeah, yeah, I mean,
so almost 100, 100 million video views in a 28 -day period, right?
So let me go into it. And these are not, you're not doing shorts on this one. Is
this all long form or you have short? We stopped doing shorts. We have done shorts,
but it's been several months. And we're actually private -type. Okay, great, great.
It's not that I'm anti -short, it's just you need to have the right strategy. You
know me. You know how I am. Let me go geographic first.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So, I mean, you got a million views from India already.
And then what was the language
So if we try, if we try all the Spanish on a, on a localized channel,
then we would do. Well, Spanish is not even there. I'd 100 % do it on a localized
channel. I'm just saying, well, like, yeah, so we can do. You're going to do Hindi,
right? Uh -huh. Okay. And then you're going to do German. Okay.
And you're going to do Portuguese. Okay. So not Tagalog?
Um,
Possibly. I might want to do it on a different channel, possibly, but let me, let
me just dig real quick on something.
Are your VAs from the Philippines? They are, and I serve my mission there. So,
I mean, the national language is Tagalog. A lot of people speak English, And then
pretty much divide the country and half in the southern half of the country speaks
Subuano. Yeah. And there's like 3 ,000 dialects across the Philippines. So very
familiar with the Philippines. My son went there. My sister went there. Oh, cool.
So, yeah, very, very familiar.
Just, is Brayden on the call? I can get him on the call in two seconds.
Let me just, Braden,
can you unmute yourself? I am unmuted. I have been released into the wild. Oh,
you're showing your screen, Sarah. Like, let's not do that.
Is Tagalog green light yet? Tagalog will be a part of that new model that's being
released. So we're a ways out from that. Like, we're a couple weeks out from that?
Yeah, we're a few weeks out from that. Okay. Okay, Sarah, let me tell you why we
didn't do Tagalog yet, and you'll understand it being in the Philippines. There's
certain languages that you need to have the right type of contextual emotion type
thing. We have another model that's coming out, and new languages will be a part of
that. And so, yeah, so let's just go ahead. If we can go back to the screen real
quick, and then I want to be in the advanced screen, And whoever was sharing the
screen, I can't remember who it was. But that was me. Yeah, if I can get into
that, I'll tell you the languages. And then I need you to do a little bit more
aggressive push on this.
So we want Hindi, we want German, we want Portuguese on that one.
Yeah.
And Malaysia, I would have to dig in deep on Malaysia. There's several languages
there. Yeah. We do have some offering there. I think it's Malay is the the main
language there. If it is Malay, we do have Malay in Ditto. So you do that.
Okay.
However, I want you to do 30 videos. Like, I want your 30 videos that you're doing
on this one. and all I wanted to do is the ones that are performing right now so
like just literally anything that's performing right now that's what we need to go
through so that makes sense okay so you don't want us to do the five dead videos
yes and no
okay I just need that 30 because like you already get in traffic there most of the
channels aren't getting traffic like yours are your content's a little bit different
than everybody else's and so we can do some dead ones but realistically you're
already these are views that most people don't have um just because the base of it
you're already somewhat global you just need to now localize okay well um one other
question so um on the spanish localized channel we thought about because we have six
years of content and our kids look different in those six years, right, since we're
a family channel. So would you recommend starting with, you know, the last 90 days
of content or should we, because we have so much content, but it doesn't make sense
to release what they look like now and then later release what they looked like six
years ago. So we were thinking about starting six years ago because that,
you know, Spanish countries might not know or care what we look like, you know,
and then eventually the kids will get older. Yeah. What are your thought? Let me
address one. It looks like Brandon's on the call, too. So, like, Brandon, don't do
music videos. Like, don't do the top performing music videos. Only do the ones that
are active outside of music videos. Because music videos will still get the same
reach that you will. And if you do, it might be switching out the intro
where you keep the music the same i i'd have to look at it but don't do that and
then sarah to answer your question um i would probably do the older videos first
the top performing first on the spanish channel you can always move it to the newer
one just keep in mind that it's not they're consuming content and they're going to
go along the journey and that's why i say you have a wealth of things so you can
go back through and and and uh do it that way and then hold uh because all we
want to do is hold to see what it does, right?
aggressive approach. So,
does that make sense? Yes.
Hold on. Did everyone see how personalized this is? This is the type of thing that
we do in Channel Jumpstar, for those that are not part of Channel Jumpstar, it's
like, like, just looking at the data, it makes us make different decisions, like
someone that doesn't have a global audience, like, okay, we need to do it a test
to see, is it going to increase. They already have the countries watching them. I've
got millions of views coming outside the U .S. Now it's just more honing it. It's
just honing it. And that's why I want 30 videos instead of 10. We don't necessarily
need to do inactive because we already have, we already know that that's going to
work. Where they already have the audience, so whatever videos you do, like
seriously, Sarah, they're going to perform because you already have the viewship
coming from those geographic region. So it doesn't matter if it's whatever, because
what we'll do is we'll want you to do after this initial test we're able to see,
is it going the right direction? Then we put the the gas pedal to the floor and
you're going to just do your whole freaking library. I mean, that's going to take a
lot of time, but I want you to be more strategic in doing it. And two, it needs
to make sense. And just let you know, we've had people do this, that just that
them they have done original music videos or music songs and they've done songs off
of like Disney and stuff like that that are translated into other other languages
like um oh the the the bruno song so those are translated to those languages when
those people watch those movies would you translate those ones no because everyone
that i know that that that loves music will sing the lyrics of whatever language
that it is in. It's just that's where it's at. So if there's a tee up of English
on the front end, back end, and then you have the music video is the one thing,
but I wouldn't do it.
It would be interesting to do a test, but I just want to win right now, and
that's one variable I don't want to monkey with. It performs, it does.
I know it's getting traffic worldwide. Um, music's just different than the spoken
word, even though that music has lyrics, it's just different. And so I just want to
make sure that we have, have that. I love that. Thank you so much about going for
the easy wins right now and then adjust later on the harder stuff. Cool. Um, don't
hold back, Sarah. I give you permission to do those 30 videos, you know,
max it out on those languages and let's have that data and then do it sooner than
later so that we can actually take this time to give the proper analysis so that
you can just put that metal to the floor because I know that's what you guys do
like been around you enough I know that's what you do I want that one 100 million
video views a month to get to 300 billion a billion let's go for a billion Darrell
hey come on now step by step it's not It's not impossible. I see people doing
billions of years. Back to a few of them are jump starters, the ones that are
leading the charge here, which is great.
Okay.
So, Daryl, let's open up to questions. Yeah, let's do Peter with the basement.
Let's unmute him real quick on it. Him or Ted, I don't care which one. So, I
heard Peter first, so I'm searching for your name.
And then for everyone, if you got a question, go ahead, raise your hand. I know
Kathy Yotter, I'm going to get you on next to ask your question and then Russell,
but then we'll go through those that are raising their hands. Great. Peter, what's
up, man? Yep, I'm here. How are you doing today? Good. You had a couple questions.
And I just want to make sure you're clear. So on Peter's call,
the last time we were talking about, where's the game is the most popular? They
actually do gameplay, you know, in the basement, and they're playing video games. And
so Zelda is their title. And then you were supposed to go and recon,
you know, what language is what Nintendo is supporting in Zelda.
What did you find out? French seems to be a big deal for Nintendo. We're targeting
Spanish first, but French is going to be our next language after that. Okay.
You'll always want to go where Nintendo's at. So doing a test in French would be
wise regardless. Okay. So even if you did five videos, I'd do just just get that
going let's see what we can get what traction is because if that is a big deal
with the with the the IP of the game uh that's that's what we want to do as well
yeah the friend the whole french speaking culture seems to be very much more
nintendo than sony or microsoft and so it's really weird um it's really weird i did
the uh i mean just with with what i do for work for on the opposite side of it
it's really weird how regionally some games really take off in certain areas like
it's just crazy it's crazy so it's like culturally based but um uh and when are
you launching um your spanish where where are you at on that yeah the spanish
channel channel is launching friday march first okay uh we have 15 videos dubbed and
what we're thinking is three on the first day and two more that week and then
three a week until we burn through that backlog and how big how how long are the
videos of the three that you're releasing some of them are 11 minutes and some of
them are 75 okay what I'd like you to do is release it do it let us do it thing
wait and then the next release on your fourth video make sure it's a longer video
okay okay that's the one i want you to push from the community to have say hey we
got a spanish channel on but go directly to that video do not go to anything else
so okay and
then and then two are we we're changing everything on that Spanish channel,
right?
Yeah, that's right. Okay, good, good, okay.
Good, go. What other questions are you up?
Yeah, well, let's see. Do you recommend doing a lot of the longer videos up front
so we can try to get to 4K watch hours sooner? No, you'll get there really fast.
We just got to get it picked up. So just your top performers is the highly highly
likelihood of getting it done and then and then to just have a good solid strategy
so if you're releasing multiple one time a week it should be that longer form video
for sure so great okay I think that's it for me today but but Peter is the moment
the moment that you get traction on it you reach out we have a conversation but
when you respond to your next video it should be that longer form video it just we
just got to get some active viewership some viewership happening to get that active
viewership so okay understood okay thanks there we go Kathy you're up and then going
to Russell
Justin, it's gilder, not yotter, by the way. Come on, Justin.
Like, you've only known her for like four years. I'm a horrible human being.
No. Just go to the extreme. I'm glad it's Justin and not me. Hey, Kathy, how you
doing? Hi. Good. Hey, okay. So I was excited last call to figure out that we had
multi -track. Yep. So I started getting all of those ready. And for my VA,
I had to build the process. So I did it to two videos. I launched it. But then I
was like, crap, I should have waited and done them all at the same time. Yep. And
then my question to you is, did you set up your affiliate links in the other
regions yet? Well, yeah. We've had like global, the Amazon global. Okay, you got the
global one? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And then who has the most airfriars outside the U .S.?
I don't know. I just was looking at trends. I can see that in France it's just
starting to explode air friars. That's where you need to go then. What you got to
do is when it's product -based, for those that don't know, she does a lot of
airfriars. I bought so much air -friars stuff because of her, which is And our house
has been blessed in so many different ways. But the air frying movement is more
about where the transaction is occurring. And then you already have the stuff set in
play. So I would literally, literally focus in on where the trends of the cells are
going. So you know how you have great relationships with air friar companies. Get
their data of where they're actually doing their marketing and then two, where the
transactions are actually happening. And then, too, anything, like I'd probably spend,
if it was me and if I was between you and your partners and stuff like that,
spend a day on getting that data and being first to market because like nobody is
right now. You can. You already have a deep library of
Okay.
Okay. Um, my other question is there's some of my top videos. I have a very
specific video that I would point to. Yep. Maybe that's not one of, anyway, if it's
not translated, do I just need to add that to my translated? Yes, I would.
Anything that you want to break the, you don't want to break the momentum of what
they would actually watch next. right okay so you definitely want to have that so
if you have that viewing um um you know kind of that viewing pattern of where
they're going next you've got to have those videos translated as well okay so i'm
doing i was doing french and german and i was going to do spanish on my main yep
those are great those are great but i was going to should i hold off on doing a
separate channel Yeah, let's get some data in, yeah.
But go pretty aggressive on France, like really, really aggressive on that.
So.
Okay, cool. Thank you. All right. Okay. There we go. And then Russell,
he jumped off. So next up, we're going to Mark you are. Did he put a question in
there? I'll search search for is Russell V right wasn't it Russell Vee yeah yeah
yeah yeah see if you put a question in there it's fine yeah I'll search for it
but in the meantime we're going to go ahead and have Mark come up
you do you know mark what's going on man hey very good we're excited to be here
again okay so my question is what are your thoughts on or experience on channels
that have been the
triggered me, Mark. I'm not going to have PTSD moments hearing this. Do you don't
know how many people like, oh, I got demonetized because they're buying views or
whatever. Anyway, let me tell you what I would do. And I'll explain why, okay?
Start a new channel, but you need to do it with a new Google account.
Yes. So create a new Google account, go in, you'll create that YouTube account,
that YouTube channel with that. The reason why I would recommend you doing that is
because YouTube keeps track of everything that you do. You got demonetize, you got
community strikes, whatever. It just creates a list of, hey, we're associated with
this user on it. And it goes across everything. You get deleted from YouTube.
This is the scariest thing. You get deleted from YouTube on one channel. They're
going to look at all the other channels that you own, and they're going to delete
those two. That happens every single time. The only way to circumvent that is start
a brand new fresh channel by doing a brand new fresh YouTube account. Okay,
new login, new everything, right? And then you can start building it out from there.
Now, that doesn't mean that you can't associate your AdSense account with that other
one. It's fine. You're able to do that. But I just want a clean slate on this,
especially if you have that. So you'd be good to go.
Awesome. Thank you so much. You're welcome. There we go. And Russell's questions, he
asked, he doesn't have multi -track. Should he start a new channel? What was his,
what was his subscriber? RV TV. He, his main audience are older boomers who are
traveling in traveling across the U .S. He drives around mainly,
well, now he's driving the whole U .S. showing van life for boomers. I mean, he's
getting some decent views, though, right? He's getting really good views now. And I
think he's going to South America on his journey, right? I know that's part of his
goals because, yeah, it took him a year to save up for channel jumpstart and now
he's he makes that in like two weeks yeah yeah um could we uh could we look at
his data and then and then decide on that we'll have to from utah right the guy
that like he's in arizona just across the border well no but he was in utah or
something like that right yep yeah yeah i'll reach out to him good yeah i need i
i want to help him the best but i think wherever his journey is it going, I'd
have to look at the data on that. So let's do that. Awesome. Okay. Then we got
Christopher, then Chris, and then we'll jump into any other questions that people
have. Great.
Oh, hi there. I hope you can hear me. Yes, Mr. How are you doing? Great. Great.
Really good. I hope you're doing good as well.
Really good to chat. So I don't have multitrack yet.
this is pure audio. Yeah, no, not at all. And I'll explain why,
because the question is a very solid question, but YouTube's looking for markers of
the type of viewer that's watching it. So when I go and look at it,
I'm very intentional of what YouTube's looking at. So it's looking at who's watching
it, where, what type of device they're watching it on where they're watching it from
and i don't mean geographically it's like are they are they watching it from the
home page are they watching it from search you know where where's that traffic
source very specifically and then and then too you know they're looking at other
indicators okay the other indicators would be geographic okay like where in the world
they're watching it from but it's also now going to be the the type of viewers. So
like there might be someone that the pattern that they don't watch as much on the
video as other countries. And it could be because of the device type.
Because like if they're on TV on certain areas, the device type, you'll actually
have longer retention just because of the device. But YouTube's able to identify,
oh, those patterns and they'll realize, oh, this one's actually a multi -track audio
and they're not watching as much or they're watching more and they just basically
look at that pattern to go find more people like it does that make sense sure sure
yeah i just don't ever look at that's why i don't look at oh the retention of
everything i have to drill down on the attention of where they're actually watching
it from yeah that's that's what I care about. I don't care about the global number
percentage of retention. I care about the traffic source and also the very specific
retention based off of that. Okay, cool. Yeah, it's just because most my videos are
like sleep meditations, bedtime stories, so that audio is in your ear, and, you
know, done that AI change ever? If there's ever a channel that,
or ever a channel that deserves to have that in sleep meditation is, is this
service that we're using. The other ones that they don't, they don't account for it.
And so it's not, it doesn't have that tonality. We knock it out of the park on
the tonality. So definitely test and try. And then, too, when you get it going, The
multi -track, like, you can request it on Twitter if you go to creator support or
whatever. And then, too, if you go be a part of their beta program, like just beta
labs for YouTube, you're on the list to actually start trying it. But they're
rolling it out really fast right now. So probably best to do it on multi -track.
And you'll eventually be able to change thumbnails and things like that. Yeah. And
then two, is it all music, Christopher, or you're, I can't remember on yours,
is it, or you kind of have voice at times throughout the whole thing.
Yeah, so it's my voice speaking to people and a very relaxing. Yep. Sleep
meditation, sleep hypnosis, great. This is perfect for it. Seriously. Yeah. I've got
good feedback from my Spanish friends. Oh, you already, good. Good. I do the trials.
That's great.
available, you just know that you can't use Spanish in it or it's a duplicate
content issue. Okay. Brilliant. Thanks so much. Hey, thanks Christopher.
Cool. Then we're going to Chris.
I know too many Chris's. Which Chris is this?
This is the Bushman. All right. There we Oh, there we go. Great,
perfect. What's your question? So in my videos, there's not a lot of,
like, talking dialect. So I did the test, and the first time it, like,
put their voice over the screen. So the screen was kind of, like, in the
background. But then I downloaded the different audio
And I'll put my audio with their audio.
Do you think if I, I don't have the option on YouTube yet.
So should I just start a new channel?
The second language would be Russia. Russia. If Russia's big on it,
yeah, I would definitely do. There's a lot of your ship on Russia, just a so um
so just take the different audio clips um i if you're going to go all russian i
would translate the stuff that's even on screen of if you're going through the audio
clip you download the audio clip go through that whole thing and then and then you
uh change it out from thumbnail to title to any graphics that you have in your
videos sorry often thank you so much yep there we go.
Those are all the people that raise their hands. Yeah. Tristan, are you good to
talk real quick, brother? If you are, give us a thumb -nops. I'm going to allow you
to talk. I don't know if you're if you're just grinding and just listening along
the way. Yeah. Hi. Hey, how are you doing? I can't complain too much.
Eldon Ring D .L .C. was announced the other day and I'm just in a good mood. I bet
you are. I bet there's a lot of good news. Like my Nvidia stocks going through the
roof, which is great. Oh, I bet. Okay, so a couple things.
For everyone, Tristan, I had him speak at BidSummit for AI, and so he's been able
to kind of navigate and see and look through this whole landscape. And I just
wanted you to talk about the opportunity real It's like, I think you get it.
We've talked about it over and over again. It's like we're at this unique moment in
time where you're either going to be in or out or just late to the party. Would
you just take a minute on what you're seeing out there? It doesn't necessarily be
anything audio driven, but more AI driven. That would be great. Yeah.
So I think the biggest thing is it's raising kind of like the bottom floor of
skill sets, right? So like if there's something that you're not particularly good at
when it comes to video creation or optimization or even just managing kind of like
the back and like the business side of YouTube, like there's so many things that
you can do it. And like they're not necessarily all going to be perfect. They're
not going to be able to do 100 % of the job for you. But if they can do 80 % of
the job, like it just saves a lot of time it brings up like the like so that
kind of that base level so like you're just having a better place to launch from
um and like I can give a couple examples so like I've been working on a custom
GPT that writes scripts for like YouTube ads and uh it just it's been running for
three days now and I have a 90 .9 % retention rate on and add like one of the pre
-roll ads that runs you know that once you can skip after five seconds yeah like
that's really darn good i'm very proud of that and like i suck at writing scripts
i am not a super entertaining person to listen to um i'm not exactly uh one of
these creators that can come up with a good title or anything but i can use an i
can teach it kind of like the basic concept of what i'm looking for and then let
it go out and do that 80 and i can come back and i can you know try and get
that last 20%.
a few things, and then you've heard about this opportunity here. And now you're
like, dang it, now I've got to do all this stuff in Spanish. And this is so
great. But I think the most important thing is there's so many amazing people out
there that can't speak English with proficiency.
Like they understand words or whatever, but they're really, really smart. And you met
those people, I met those people. This this tool is for them. Like, at the end of
the day, it's like, hey, they can now have English as their market, too. And
there's so many people that have amazing content. They're super smart. They're super
passionate, but they're a little hesitant to create in a language,
whether it's whatever. Because it's whatever their native tongue is, to have it
translated into English is so big, so many different opportunities from there. And
the reason why I say that is you got to experience that firsthand in the sense of
going living in a different country and being, you know, I mean, even just being
married and just the whole thing, it's just like your mind's opening up to another
culture here. And it's so great that there's a lot of amazing people out there that
now can use this tool and get there in English. And so I just wanted just to kind
of close on that with you is what do you think that's going to do, you know, from
your perspective when it comes to AI like like
that just don't have the opportunity to be told. They don't have the opportunity to
be shared. And that can either be because of technical limitations. It can be
because of monetary limitations. Like there's a million different reasons for it. But
YouTube and AI and all these other just technological advances in general, they're
letting people communicate and speak for themselves. Like, yeah,
we're using an AI to kind of help as the intermediary between people, but it's
really giving people the opportunity to express themselves more effectively, more
clearly, and more artistically. Like, it's really, really amazing. I love it. Well,
thanks, Justin. Appreciate that for jumping on. Justin, who's the last two questions
that we're pulling on? We're going with Leo and then Christian. Mr.
Leo.
Can you hear me? There we are. How are you doing, man? Oh, you can hear me. Oh,
thank you. Yeah, good to see you again. I'm going to do jumpstart about the animal
rescue, about the sanctuary, as you know, we talk about it. Yeah, yeah. But here's
this AI we're really, really hot on because I have two feature films that were one
of them were doing an anniversary edition of a thriller. And then I have the family
one there where the dog is an angel, but the dog is played by Christopher Lloyd.
Christopher Lloyd has a very unique voice. So you had mentioned once that we're
going to be able to do voice matching with AI.
Do you know when that is about ready to hit? It's already there. The only problem
will be is SAG actually has a couple key things about AI and cloning and using it.
And it depends on, you know, about distribution. So you'll have to go through and
see the latest. But that was the latest SAG strike. Bulk of it was on the writing
side with using AI, but also the acting side.
So you'll have to get the details there because it will sound like Christopher
Lloyd. I can guarantee it. Wow. It Fantastic. I'll see you on the other end in a
few minutes. Thank you, Daryl. All right. Okay. There we go. Okay, Best Brands
perfume.
Yeah. Oh, I just typed in the question. I was wondering if it is okay to upload
old videos on my YouTube separate Spanish channel. Yes. If it's translated into,
like you're doing it as You're switching it out. So you're taking the old video,
taking out the audio track for, oh,
I'm sorry, the video track. So you're uploading a correct video track with the
appropriate language on it. So in other words, if I make a brand new video today
for the U .S. channel, and then a month later, I can upload it in Spanish. There'll
be no duplicity content. Correct. As long as you're not in any time using that
audio track on a different channel, but you have to do the video track. So when
you go to Ditto, you can just download the video file in Spanish, and you'll be
good to go on that one. Right, right. Okay. Great.
So Ditto takes care of everything. It takes care of a lot. I wouldn't say
everything. You still have to actually find the video, put it up there, pick the
language, and then download it. So, yeah. Love it. Great.
There we go, Daryl. Those are all the questions for this. Every week we're going to
be answering questions. If you are on the fence, I know that a lot of you come on
for this free training where you're trying to figure things out is it right for
you. Ultimately, I want to just make sure that you understand. There's a lot of
decisions that you have to make. And for me, if you have content, if you have a
library of content, and even if you don't have multi -track, I would be doing the
test right now. I would be doing a language that you can integrate right now. And,
you know, you've been able to see, hey, I have this feature. Well, great. Use it
on the main channel. If you don't have the features, start a new channel. If you
have really good videos and also you're getting the views. And my thing is, is
like, which language first? I was able to show you which is the most viewed
languages in the world. And then two, if it was me, I would just be a language
that you're comfortable with or that you kind of understand a little bit.
You know, It could be a type of culture or whatever. Those are the ones I do
first just because it's easier to understand and easier to navigate. But ultimately,
we're trying to make momentum happen because I really do believe we're in a stage
that is going to transform YouTube as we know it. And the first ones in are the
ones that benefit the most. And I really could honestly say I've seen that happen
over and over and over again. You can see how that was an example for some of
these bigger channels that have been doing it for a long time. Now, why can't that
be you? And that's what didodubbing .com is able to do. You know, Ditto dub is
getting that dub just right, but you're the one that has to take action, and that's
what we're all about. Guys, thank you so much, and we'll see you next week on our
training very exclusively for you. Thank you, everyone.

PT4

Hey, everyone. I am super excited to be here, and I got some really amazing things
to show you. And I'm really excited for this year, 2024. There's a lot of great
tools and a lot of great things that will help us as creators and businesses really
excel on YouTube. And for me, it's really about...
you. And this is something really cool. We've been working on it for quite a while.
Those that are a part of my inner circle and mastery and those that came to Mexico
for the Channel Jumpstart retreat. You guys already seen it. So really excited for
all of you that have been a part of Channel Jumpstart. And ultimately, this is
going to be a tool that's going to help you where you should be. So let's kind of
just dive right in. I'm going to kind of throw up a slide deck, and this is
really important. I know that everyone knows that Mr. Beech is pushing the needle,
and he's getting tons of views. What I'd like to do is kind of explain why.
I know that we talk about that in Channel Jumpstart. We talk about getting the
right type of thumbnail, the right type of packaging, the right type of video, but
it's actually more important that you understand that he's getting hundreds of
millions of video views, and sometimes you might not know why. And in this video,
in this train, I'm going to show you exactly specifically what he's doing. Now, that
being said,
70 % of YouTube watchtime comes from outside the United States. So in the United
States, it's about 20, 28, somewhere around there, but over 70 % actually comes from
worldwide audiences. And ultimately, I want to show you this. This is a Mr.
Beast channels. He actually has multiple channels. And I want you to watch this
really quick. And I want to be able to discuss this. So this is August 7th,
2021. And as this comes through, you're able to see that he has a Spanish channel
that's popping off. And then he also has Beast Gaming, Beast React.
As you're very much well aware, the reason why Mr. Beast has really succeeded in
getting a ton of views in a short amount of time is he's actually targeting
multiple languages, and it's something about localization. And I'll talk about that in
a second. Now, he, in his strategy, YouTube had no ability to add multiple audio
tracks. And so he actually created separate channels, and these separate channels did
compute, and then ultimately, YouTube says, oh, we need to localize more.
And so now you can add the audio tracks into your specific video.
So if you have a video on your channel, there are some channels right now that
you're able to add multiple audio tracks to that same video, and the audio track
would be very specifically connected to the language that is localized and you can
see right here this is a video that he released last week or whatever you can see
the different types of audio tracks what YouTube has is the ability to actually
actually when someone's watching in their native tongue if that audio tracks there is
going to actually play the audio track they don't have to select it it's going to
say oh I recognize that they're watching everything in Spanish. If it's Spanish,
they're going to go ahead and do this. Now, I know a lot of you are thinking,
okay, what about me? You know, where do I need to go? And I want to kind of
explain the process of this. It's really not that complicated. There's a lot of
technologies out there that's giving us the ability to do this. And it actually
comes back down to a couple of key things. Okay. And the biggest thing is YouTube's
goal is to give content creators, brands, and businesses a greater audience reach.
They actually want us to start localizing. And in fact, the CEO of YouTube said
that they are working so hard to give us tools to go out to the world.
They want us to broadcast to the world and not just in our regional area or in
our regional tongue. And so that is really important. And this is Alex's channel.
He is an inner circle student of Vine. And he has about 736 ,000 subscribers.
And his first channel is all about interviews and really going depth.
You can see it's like between an hour, hour and a half conversations. And the first
channel that he launched outside of this channel is the his eclipse channel. And the
clips channel just took right off. However, Alex, with his background, he understands
Latin culture, he understands Spanish. And so he wanted to be able to start a
Spanish channel. He basically took the content that he had on his English channel.
He got it dubbed. And in that dubbing process, you can see that he's actually
getting views. And this is a screenshot from today. You've got 20 ,000 views by
releasing a video that was actually made a few, about a year ago,
and he's actually done the dubbing process. Now, that being said, this is gaining
momentum. He's been able to upload 95 videos, and he has 98 ,000 subscribers,
but it's actually extending far greater than that. He has now went into German. This
is his German channel as of today, 14 ,000 subscribers. And he just launched a
couple weeks ago on this. And he's just getting a lot of momentum here. And
ultimately, here is his French channel. And it is amazing. Now, some of you are
saying, okay, look, I understand where the industry is going. I understand what we
need to do. And my thing is, I always like to stay kind of head of the curve.
I want to understand where things are going. Part of my story and my DNA is to
understand what YouTube's main objectives are and align myself with their main
objectives. And I can tell you that YouTube wants to have channels and videos be
extended into multiple languages because there's not a lot of content creators in
certain countries, but they want the content that is currently being made available
in their native tongue, in their tongue so that they can connect and view and
engage. Why? Because YouTube wants to fulfill with this mission of predict what the
viewer wants to watch and keep them on the platform longer. So let me go ahead and
show you this is another one of my inner circle students,
judo sloth. So let me show you a video here. This is a video of the dubbing
process, and you can go to dittodubbing .com. Dittodubbing .com. You can sign up for
free. That's not a big deal. But I want to show you this process here. Tomorrow,
when the event starts, you will be greased with the Goblin Builder. Merry Clashmas,
Chief, and welcome to my... Oh, sorry, I clicked off on it. Tomorrow, when the
event starts, you will be greased with the goblin builder. Merry Clashmas, Chief, and
welcome to my gingerbread bakery. Can you smell that delightful scent of cookie in
the air? Join me on a crew team of all Royaume. Your recompense, the super best
pricks, and a trooper specialist, rhyme and impressionatis. You have not tor? Attendee
to see the strategy that I will use during this event. Sakea Elyxir Dulce of the
Alteas Enemmigas to advance en el evento y recuerda recogerlo también de mi
panadería, ya que lo necesitarás para mis creaciones invernales. Cuanto más el Ixir
dulce recolectes más
He got a million subscribers really, really, really fast because it's extending his
reach. Now, what I want everyone to do right here right now is go go to
dittodubbing .com. Ditto dubbing .com. And all you need to do is go to this page
right here and hit try ditto for free. That's all you need to do. It doesn't cost
you anything is for free. You can try it for free. But what I'm going to show you
is the reason why I actually, you know, help develop this software to have it
available for a lot of content creators. So just go ahead to ditto dubbing .com,
ditto dubby .com, and just go ahead and do a quick sign up. And I can tell you
for us, it's going to, you can try it out for free for sure to see actually how
this works. Okay. So who wants to see it? Who wants to see it in action? Who
would like to see it in action? For me, there's a couple of things why we did
this. Now, I can tell you my why, and I can tell you very specifically the actions
that I'm doing right now. Right now, I'm concerned with one project.
That one project's called The Chosen. You can see the gold play button right over
here. You have the TV guide cover of one of our characters that plays Jesus on it.
And ultimately, I want to get this out to a billion people. I want the TV show to
get out to a billion people. And so we actually are the number one translated TV
show of all time. We actually translated more than the previous translated show
called Baywatch. And so for us, we want to get into multiple languages. However,
we put out a ton of content online. We put a lot of content on social media, and
for us, that's what it's about. So I'm going to show you what we've actually
created here, and I'll kind of explain why. Okay, let me go ahead and pull this
up. So you guys should be able to see my screen right here. When you actually go
into Ditto, I'm in dark mode, but you can actually set up projects, and the
projects, you can go very specifically and get things done. I'll go ahead and go
into a Mr. Beast video to kind of show you the process and what's actually
happening here. And then two, some of the things you can do. And then I wanna show
you the video of why I'm doing this and how you could take a very, very, very,
very complex video and really pull it out and do what you wanna do. Okay, does
that sound good? All right, so let's go ahead and jump in here real quick. This is
Mr. Beast's video and I'm going to go ahead and let me make sure I shared my
sound. I don't know if I did or not. So let me just go ahead and do this. And
I'm going to just play this video right here.
This is the most insane laser obstacle ever created. And this is just one of many
dangers. So Mr. Beast actually puts out a lot of content. Now, what he's done in
the past is he actually got someone to actually dub it in real life.
He didn't use AI or anything like that. However, that being said, you know, that's
really costly. Some of his videos cost anywhere between $15 ,000 and $20 ,000 to
actually get produced for a dubbing with having live action actors that's actually
doing the dubbing process. Now, for us, we wanted to go through the process to
really help creators do this at very, very fast speeds and have a lot of
predictability. And so I'll go ahead and pick Spanish and we will hear Mr. Beast in
Spanish. Now, here's the different things. We were able to isolate Mr. Beast's voice.
And then two, there's actually contestants. This is contestant number eight. This is
contestant number nine. We have Mr. Beast. So it actually isolates the voice, pulls
it out, and then goes through the process of cloning.
es el obstáculo láser más loco creado jamás y es sólo uno de varios laberintos,
laser extremos hechos para este video. El concursante de estos. OK. So, here at what
it is, just be able to pull out the file, do the dubbing, and actually do the
translation and dubbing, and then put it back in, and then even keep the music
there. So you don't even have to extract anything, it does it all for you, it's
just beautiful. If you notice right here, we have Arabic. And one thing that I'm
really excited about, ditto Didodub is that you actually can start getting dialects.
You can actually get very, very specific areas that might have a little bit
different vocabulary. It's really smart on this. Let's go ahead and do Korean real
quick. So you can hear Mr. Beast speak Korean. This is what is it? This video in
the video of the laser from today,
particularly a little bit faster. I actually sent this to someone in Korea and
they're like, man, he's talking super fast. How can you slow it down? Well, we can
actually slow this down. We can actually go through the process to slow down. And
I'm going to show you, this was actually done a couple months ago, and we actually
got it so that it actually keeps the right type of pacing and go from there. So
let me go back to my project here. You can see we got it translated all in all
these different languages. And the reason why I did that is because I have the goal
to actually upload a YouTube video and have it be translated in the languages that
we have. Right now, we're doing about 35 languages consistently on social media. I
would love what we put out something for YouTube that we can actually put it out
in 35 different languages at the same time. Having YouTube give us the ability to
have the multi -track audio, we're able to go and do that. So let me go ahead and
play this original one. And I want to kind of explain why I did this one. There's
multiple people that are speaking here. It just doesn't isolate one person. It has
multiple people that you can do. So let's go ahead and go here. All right. What an
immense privilege it's been to tell this story in this place. You can see me with
you people. With that little video on our Utah time. Thank you. Come on somebody.
Let's go.
So we are done here in Utah. Last day of filming just finished. And it has been
the privilege of a lifetime to tell this story in this place. Today, our last day
was filming one scene, one big scene. Okay, so that's 30 seconds. And there's music
and there's pacing and so on. So let's go ahead and em português real quick, e o
que eu encontrei é que, como a gente foi capaz de pegar isso juntos, e como a
gente foi capaz de realmente fazer isso certo, é realmente a tonalidade e o flow de
cada língua. Então vamos fazer isso em português.
Obrigado. Vamos lá, alguém. Vamos embora.
Então terminamos aqui em Utah, o último dia de filmagem acabou de terminar, e foi o
privilégio de uma vida contar essa história nesse lugar. Hoje foi nosso último dia
filmando uma cena, uma grande cena, e é quando Jesus está preparando o - Ustyrmądam
on ten... - Ok, więc widzisz to, ale widzisz wszystkie inne języki tutaj. Zacznijmy
od razu i pójdźmy po Polsku. Znaczymy się od razu trochę, żeby mogli się tutaj
stworzyć. Zajmijmy się troszeczkę dalej.
To pochylić się nad nim bezpośrednio. To wygląda na silniejsze niż... ...pochylając
się w ten sposób, to wyglądało na bardziej swobodne.
Ale ja nie sądzę, żebyś musiał się opierać o skałę. Chodzi mi o to, że jeśli
naprawdę chcesz coś udowodnić.
automatically starts processing. So you can see right down here and process a
Filipino and then also processing Russian. Now the great thing is, is you actually
can do your meta information and it will translate your beta information, which is
your title, your description, your tags that can actually be done. And so ultimately,
as you're going through this process, you can see that it can take something very
complex and do it in a really impactful way. So let me do this other one right
here. I want to show you real quick because there's another way to do it. So if I
hit ad languages, I can come and figure out, oh, Arabic. I can roll over right
here. I want United Arabic or Emirates Arabic. So I can go ahead and do that.
It will actually do the dialogue of that. And we're actually getting the AI smarter
every time that it's being used. And so you can see that that's now processing like
this. And so let me go ahead and do Spanish on this one. Since, you know,
there's quite a few people that actually speak Spanish. What I love is it can
actually get the tonality and the flow of the individual that's speaking and then
have it be able to come across in a very, very powerful way. me they're always and
the media constantly nos interrogaban. ¿Por qué estás aquí? ¿Qué hacen ustedes? ¿Por
qué juntos? ¿Por qué colaboran? ¿Cuál es la historia? Tú cuéntas primero, ya que mi
historia contigo sucedió simultáneamente, pero... La serie de Chosen es mi favorita,
obvio. Sí, es mi cuarto favorito. Mi cuarto. No, en serio. Entonces,
lo interesante es que antes de recibir esta invitación para colaborar en este
especial de Navidad hace unos años. So we basically can go and take this and go in
every specific direction on this. And the cool thing about it is YouTube is
literally going and they want to localize this. And they want to localize where they
can get the most reach out of the video content that's there. I can say that there
are jump starters right now that have been able to bring in a lot more money
without hardly any left. They were just basically hitting a translation button.
They're doing some double checking and they're uploading content and on a new channel
and some of them are doing it on their main channel. And ultimately they're able to
start getting more reach just like Mr. Beast. So like Mr. Beast, when he releases a
video, he's in 15 languages. That's the reason why he's getting 10 million views in
a couple hours. And that's why he's getting hundreds of millions of views in a
couple days is because he's actually reaching the world where before, oh,
maybe it was only 28%, but now is going bigger and bigger and bigger. Now,
there are a lot of you that have questions and want to know a little bit about
this. And what I want to do is to be able to answer your questions and get very
specific. So there is a questions tab that you can actually put your questions in
there. I'll pull it up and I'll answer it live and we'll be able to go through
this. Now, here's what I want to say first. This doesn't cost you anything to sign
up and you can actually try it out. I'd encourage you all to do that. I'm going
to have some substantial training for those of the people that are using it and
we're going to show very, very specific case study of when to use it or not. Okay.
So let's go ahead and go into this first question by,
let's see here. Andrew Murdoch, this is looking awesome. What's the differences
between Ditto Dough and a tool like, Hey, Jen? Okay, so there are a lot of
different tools that are out there that are trying to do the same thing that Ditto
Dub is doing. And ultimately, there's just different ways to do it. Now, Hey,
Jin, you can only put up so many minutes into it. They're doing some pretty cool
things there. I'll be honest with you. However, the people at Hey, Jin, want to buy
us. They literally want our stuff because the translations is 10x higher,
the 10x better. And we actually did this, Andrew, we actually did this very
specifically in German in Mexico because we had someone that was a native speaker
German and they were blown away. Dr. Ulrich was like saying, I cannot believe this.
It's so, it's even distinctions of really pulling it in on a regional language.
Now, that being said, we did that same with Spanish. We did the same with
Portuguese. We did that same with Japanese. and we had all these different people
that were just verifying that it was so freaking good. I actually just did a
conference for all our employees at The Chosen, and I literally, I did French.
Okay. Now, I want to explain why I did French for you. I actually chose the
dialect of Canadian French. And the person that was hearing it,
he was born in France. And so I went and played it out. And I says, hey, how was
that French? He goes, do you know what? It was really, really good. But I think it
was Canadian French. I said, you're exactly right. Now, I listened to the motherland
of French. And I played that. And he was just blown away. He could not believe how
distinct it was by that regional location. So what we're doing is getting very, very
specific on helping the AI learn and learn intentions.
So both both
Okay. So here's the thing. It is so smart that we got very specific and tried to
stump the AI. And the modeling that we have is they're able to go and connect and
understand the language that's there and actually get it translated. Now, the reason
why I say that is one of the hardest channels that you could say would be in this
realm was metaphysical channels. Okay, so metaphysical, there's different words that
mean different things. And that, that is the, um, uh, Alex's channel and ultimately
it just nailed it right on the head because what it does is going to learn. And
then two, you can actually make the, the modifications if you have someone that is,
um, uh, more in the vein of understanding that language and can double check the
work. Um, however, I think we're about 99 .1 % there.
It's just that 0 .09 % that it can improve,
but it gets smarter every time that you use it. And if it knows that it is a
medical -driven content, it is going in and learning that on that side.
Okay.
Brett had a question. So is it best to create a new channel. Well,
not necessarily. So this is what we're going to do. Today I wanted to introduce it
to you. I wanted you to sign up and I want you to start playing around with it
and pick a language and go from there. I would do a language that is actually in
your channel. So I'd look to see, is there countries in your channel that's actually
bringing your views? I'd probably look at those first and get some translations for
that. Secondarily, the biggest opportunity right now is Latin America.
So Spanish and Portuguese, it's just taking off there. It's just like, like I've
seen channels at start. They did the dubbing process in about 30, 40 days.
They had a million subscribers, even before they had a million subscribers on their
English channel. There's just a lot of opportunity. And so For me,
once you start going through that process, we're actually going to take everyone that
has signed up. That's why it's important to go to dittodubbing .com, ditto dubbing
.com, and go ahead and try it for free because what we're going to do is notify
everyone that has done that and teach you exactly how to analyze. Is it right to
put it on your own channel or is it right to start another channel? Because I've
literally given both scenarios to do based on on the circumstances, but we gotta
look at the data. Every channel's different. We need to see what's actually happening
on the channel to make that decision. So if you sign up, you can do it for free.
We're gonna go a lot more in depth in the training on that. Okay? Here is Lake
Speed Jr. He says, how many different languages, audio tracks can be on a single
video? Well, YouTube has it set up that you can do about 40 different languages.
They're adding more, but between 40 languages is where you're at. However,
most companies, most businesses, they do right around 15 to 20, and that gets a
really big portion of the world. You know, if you get Mandarin, you get Spanish,
you get Portuguese, you get French, you get German, you get English, and then you
can get a little bit more granular like Hindu. There's different languages in India
that you can hit as well. And you're getting massive of the population, about 80 %
to about 85 % of the population. Generally, when TV shows are done on Netflix or
whatever, they try to get the top 18 to 20 languages actually done. Timothy Dunn,
this is amazing. What's the accuracy percentage of this tool? I can tell you that
when we started, it wasn't as accurate as I wanted it to be because I was actually
taking Spanish, for example, and I wanted to get very, very specific on it. And
that was right around VidSummit. So I actually showed this tool at VidSummit. That
was October, right? I can tell you right now, there is not a dubbing service out
there like this. There's just not, I tested it, and all of them have issues.
I actually had a friend send me. I was in the airport last night, sent me a dub,
and he's like, oh, check this out, the cool tool out. He had no idea that I was
a part of this other company. He showed me another tool. I says, okay, first off,
this is really bad, and I'll betcha it was this company. And he goes, yes, it was.
And I go, yeah, yeah, hey, check this out. And he was blown away, too, because he
speaks to other languages, and he could not believe how accurate it was. We also
had native speakers that was listening to it, and they were blown away. They could
not understand how, you know, it was just super, super accurate. Now, once again,
you're in the high 99%, you know, I would say probably 98, 99 % accuracy on it.
But the more that you use it, the smarter that it gets. The smarter that it gets
is just going to really, really hone in. And then, too, we have some upgrades that
are coming to this service that's going to blow your mind. I'm just here to tell
you. It's something that no one's doing out there, but we're going very, very
granular because this was made for creators like you, very specifically that wants to
get more reach, and we want to make it super, super easy. All right.
Here is the next way of it. It says with one hour videos, Eight released videos a
month looks super expensive, and is there a huge volume of type of package?
Okay, so yes. So the difference is you can do a bulk upload, and what we would
encourage you to do is do a bulk upload on a language, and, you know, you get 15,
20 different videos and launch a channel or put it onto your content. Now, the
difference would be is if you're able to take your existing content without going
through the creation process anymore, just uploading or connecting to your main
channel and adding some meta information if it's going to make you more money. And
the revenue that is coming in, and this is crazy, but Alex was actually monetized
just a few days on a brand new channel. And he's done that across everything. He
actually launched his German channel when we were in Mexico. I'm like, what are you
doing? And he was pretty monetized before we left. I mean, it's so crazy. It's just
like there are some very interesting opportunities. For me, I want it for people
that understand that YouTube's a business. And this is a way to extend your reach
to get to more audiences to go from there. Now, I can tell you, this is not a
tool for everyone. Hey, I can honestly say, if you're struggling right now in
English and trying to get that thing going, maybe this tool's not for you right
now. However, you can sign it from free, you can play around with it, you can see
where it's going, you can look in your analytics, you can give you a part of the
training. And if it is right for you, then you can start taking action towards
that. Now, what we normally do and encourage is people to do a bulk upload,
get all the stuff done, launch a channel, and then as you release new content, just
hit that translate button for the new content that goes out from there. Okay. Laurie
says, is it best to add a language into our existing channel or should we create a
new channel for each language, which is best? So I did answer this, but I'll answer
it again because this is the most common question. Okay, it depends. It depends on
your data. And so all I would do, Lori, is to sign up and it's just free,
okay? And you'll be a part of the training next week. We have training next week
that we're going to go through and answer that very specific question by looking at
your data and analyzing what's best. Now, the easiest way to make that assumption is
do you have multi -track audio available on your channel right now? Because not
everyone does. Okay. So if you don't, well, you might need to create another
channel. And then two, just to let you know, YouTube is merging other channels into
the main channel. That's what they did with Mr. Mr. Beast channel. You can go and
see there a separate channel, but when you click on a video, it goes back to the
main channel. Okay, Matt saying, I'm sure, okay, I'm not sure I understand.
Do I download the dubbing and upload it to YouTube as a standalone video, or do I
upload the audio to an existing video? Yes, you can do both.
So if you have an existing video and you have multi -track creator on your main
channel and you've gone through the training to analyze should you start a new
channel or should you do your own channel you have the choice to actually take that
and I want to show you real quick so I'm going to come right here you can and
I'll go back to what has a whole bunch let's go ahead and go to this one real
quick okay and and so I can go very specific right here I can click on these
these three little dots and I can download either the video file or I can download
the audio file or I can download the flak or the vocals. I can actually separate
the vocals so I can have different tracks for the different people that are
speaking. And the cool thing about it is it gives you the ability. You can even
edit it in your own editing program, which you don't necessarily need to do, But it
gives you the ability. So what I would do is download all of them, or you can
keep it here because it stays in your program files. You can go from there. But
when you choose, I would do video and audio, and you use the video if it's a new
channel. If you already have the video out there and you're just adding the audio
file and you actually have the multi -track option on YouTube, then you can just add
it that way. But first, you have to sign up and then get the training to which
what's going to be best for you because not every scenario is best for you trust
me it's not I want you to be hyper aware of what that what that is um Eugene
Pope um Eugene hey how are you doing it's good to see it um my friend from
Romania um and it's good to see you again too one of the things that I have done
over the course of my career and I'll bring Eugene up very specifically. It's like,
I travel a lot. I speak. I work. You know, I've been in 56 different countries.
You know, I love culture. I love people. And I really appreciate Eugene because when
I went to his area, he took me on a tour. We went in and went through these
amazing, amazing places, has some amazing food. It was great times. Now, for me,
There's a lot of people in Romania that doesn't speak English, and this gives us
the ability to connect with them and go deeper. And then, too, there's a lot of
Romanians that do their content in Romania, and this will actually do it reverse
where you can actually do it in English. You can actually use the AI to do it in
English. Now, there's a lot of people, too, that have a real, they can speak
English, but they have a really rough accent. And so maybe that's a disconnecting
thing. they can do it too where they speak in their native tongue, use a
So,
Mike, I answered that question about making, adding the audio track to a channel or
not.
Marvin, do we need to edit some of our translations or text in the video?
Okay, so here is the thing. Right now, Marvin, I would actually not worry about it.
I would actually just use it, have it be going very specifically for you,
in the not so far future, we actually have the ability to add and burn in text.
So if you have text in your background, we're actually, you know, about a couple
months away from launching that, where it does a text replacement. So we're using a
lot of technologies that's been around for a long time. One is Google Vision, and
Google Vision is a part of Google translation, so you can even take out your phone
and you can put it over a menu and you know how it changes the language. We're
doing the same thing for video and then we can burn it in. However, that being
said, that doesn't necessarily work for audio tracks. Okay, so like for us, it's
like, hey, do it from here. I think that's the best case scenario that you can. If
you want to go for a little bit more added effort, you can actually do it a
little bit more work on it. And that should be fine, and then in a couple months
we'll have, we're just in our alpha -specific area.
Now, alpha version. Matt Ferrell, so how much does it cost? Paid per translation,
monthly fee. So if you go over to dittledubbing .com, let me just go ahead and pull
up a different browser, so I'm not logged in because I logged me to a lot of this
stuff. Give me one second.
Let me pull this up. Okay. I believe this is it right here.
So you can see the pricing from there. It is a subscription when you break down to
it. And then it's based off of usage. And so the cool thing about it is you can
do it in a limited voice is whatever. But as soon as you reach your bottle, you
can actually either get more credits or go to the next package or if you need a
larger plan, you can contact them very specifically on it. Now, that being said, I
would 100%, 100 % realize that this is where the future is going.
Like I said, some of it, some of you might not now be in the position to do
this, but I would sign up so you can get the training. Because if you sign up for
free. You get the training. If you don't, you don't. I'm not going to promote to
the channel jumpstart students. I'm just going to work with the people that actually
signed up on this. Okay.
Okay. So once again, everyone's having the same question. Do we create a new channel
that's localized or do we add the audio languages on the videos? That is going to
be the first training that we actually go through. That's next week. That's why you
want to sign up on that. Okay, pretty much everybody has that same question.
Let's see here. Flying with K. After Ben, somebody I worked with Ditto -Dub team,
which is good because we want you to work with the Ditto Team. And it sounded
great. Basically, I said I needed a native speaker to review the translations. We
actually, just to let you know, Fly with K, we actually I've done a lot of
improvement since Vid Summit to Now, where you can get someone to review, it's
getting pretty accurate right now, especially in the core languages that we're using.
Kathy says, okay, super cool. What's the strategy for releasing videos on a new
channel? Kathy, that's what we're going to cover next week. So make sure you sign
up at ditto dot com, ditto dubbing .com, just sign it for free, or you can get a
subscription. But we are going to do that training next week. Okay, James Caddus,
this is a really, really, really, really good comment. James actually speaks Arabic,
okay? And he says, no question, just a comment. Arabic is unbelievably good.
The dialogue is so discernible. And I know my mom and
because I did go through the back end of your channel to see there are countries
that I would be doing the translations for right out, right out of the gate. So
I'd get those going. And then we can decide next week, is it right to be on a
new channel or the main channel right there?
Okay. Okay, so everyone's talking about that. Okay, Mr.
Tijuana Jackson
says, okay, what if you're slang and lingo and your comedy is culturally specific?
Okay, that is one of the most difficult things to do in translation.
Okay, so if you have specific slang and context, that was one of the main request
that I actually gave the team that's developing this, is I want it to be culturally
relative and then to being localized. And so it is,
it's really, really smart when it comes to this that is able to hit it. Like I
said, I actually speak a couple languages. And in my area,
and I'll give you one of the slings, okay? So like there's a language that I speak
is called Guadani. And Guadani is is a native Paraguayan language that they speak in
the Amazon and also in Paraguay. And I'll just give you what it sounds like.
Apelete curruco petegina, okay? What I just said is a slang. Okay, usually they say,
they'll ask you how it's going, and then I'll say, Apelete cururu. You can say
that, or I'll say, appellate curruco petegina. Okay, so that's that slang thing. It
says, I'm doing so good. It's like the sidebirds on a frog.
learning on it.
Okay.
Another question about technical terms in handcrafts. Absolutely. It does technical
terms. It knows where to get the information, get the language, to have that really
good understanding. This has improved, like I said, tenfold over the course of the
last few months is because we've got very, very specific of getting the right type
of content. Okay, Tristan. Tristan is one of my good friends.
Tristan's also a jump starter, and he's doing a lot with AI. He's doing some really
cool stuff. I definitely follow him. Did I leave the show name in English?
Would it be really smart if you don't typically translate proper nouns,
but I would have to have the option to change it if I want. So, okay, let me
kind of explain. And Tristan, you'll actually enjoy this. Let me go back to this
screen right here. So I got to figure out where that's at. Did I – that's not the
screen I wanted. Let me see if I can get the actual screen here. Okay, let me
see. Okay. Okay, so you can see this. Okay, so the cool thing is you can actually
edit meta -information. So I can put edit meta -information here. But then also,
if I come right here, I can actually edit the transcript. And it pulls up
everything, shows the timing, shows the speaker. If you want it to go a specific
way, you can actually do that. If you want to change it in that way. However, that
being said, it is super smart, man. It is so smart. I'm still making a request
just to let you know personally that I want a dialect for Castigiano.
Okay, I want, like, literally in, in Argentina, they speak a little bit differently.
It has, like, kind of an Italian mix. It's Castilian Spanish, but it's not that
Castilian Spanish in Spain. It's just kind of its own thing. And we're getting very
specific with that, too, so you can get it regionalized as well. Okay.
Are there any times we shouldn't do a dub? This is coming from Matt. Matt, I can
tell you here right now, it is going to be a part of every strategy I have moving
forward. And the reason why is YouTube is all in on this. And I'm seeing a lot of
people that do this early on are seeing big success because of only less than 30 %
of all views coming from the United States. 70 % is coming from worldwide. and
they're really wanting to local.
It should be done come April, some around there, that we can change it out. So I
wouldn't worry about that right now. And then, too, if you're doing a very channel
that's very specific, you can just have the thumbnail be there. Now, that being
said, YouTube, like I said, on their roadmap, they're going to switch out video
files, and they are going to switch out thumbnails too. So YouTube's already trying
to do this. And it's really cool. Right now, the only thing you can do is on
certain channels is upload the audio file, but also change the meta information.
Matt Richards says, if I got a smaller channel, 7 ,000 subs, would you wait until I
have a bigger audience before using diddo -dub? What I would do, Matt, is sign up,
okay, and then I'm going to answer that question next week. In short, Possibly.
I possibly might wait, but I possibly might not. And the reason why is I need to
understand where your traffic's coming from to make that call. And then two,
if there's a demand, you might be able to grow a lot faster in a different area
and get a lot of growth. And I've seen people do that too. It's just crazy. Some
of the stuff that's going on here right now is crazy.
Can we do it in reverse? My native language to other languages including English.
Yes, that was the whole reason. We wanted people to say, hey, my English is not as
good. You know, I can speak English or I don't speak English, whatever.
You can do it in reverse. Excuse me, you can't do it in reverse. You can actually
do it in reverse. The coolest thing about this is as you take the content and you
can go from there, English is one of the options that you can actually select. So
I can come right here, and I would come right here. If I wanted to add English,
look at this, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada. I didn't know we
added Canada. They must say about, about what? I'm slaughtering it,
but out and about something like that. Sorry, Andrew, for those people that live in
Canada. But yes, you can do the same thing. You can actually put it in your
language, do that whole thing as well. So definitely sign up with that. That's going
to be probably the bigger ones for these YouTube channels outside the United States,
is putting it in English too. Because in a lot of cases, the CPMs and RPMs are a
lot higher in the United States and English -speaking countries. And if you have that
content, man, that's going to be so good. Okay.
How long does it take the AI to create audio for a new language, maybe eight to
ten minutes long? Okay, so that's a great question. So what I did, just let you
know, when we were on, I actually hit it, if you remember, look at,
Russian's already done. When we were on the call and I just hit Add Russian, it
just processes go through us. We'll go ahead and add another language.
Let's go ahead and do Romanian here real quick. So we hit Romanian. You'll see it
process here. So generally it has to go through this twice. So it has to go
through three minutes, 40 seconds. It goes through it, learns from it, and then it
has to go through it again. So you're probably about 10 minutes in a three -minute,
40 -minute video. Somewhere on there. However, it can speed up. It just done that
quite a bit. Okay. So we'll go ahead and have that process. We can see when it's
done. Okay.
The other one is, uh, Ola or Ola.
Aloha, Daryl. Do you have Hawaiian doving? Hey, we don't have Hawaiian dubbing at
this time. However, we're adding languages all the time. Now my question to you is
how many people really speak Hawaiian versus English. And so if you're trying to
just hit a niche, you can do that too. I know a lot of people are using this
tool for internal training to be able to work with VAs. There's a lot of things
that they're using this right now. That's really, really cool. Okay.
Eugene's asking, will this be in my own voice? Yes. It's going to clone your voice
and use your voice in all the different languages. That is correct.
Eric is, does it make any sense for a product channel review that makes affiliate
revenue in the U .S.? Absolutely. The only difference would be is you need to make
sure that you have affiliate in, like if you're doing Portuguese, that I would have
the affiliate in the Amazon store in Brazil because that's one of the things that
you'll need to do if not you might not get it just based on your affiliate program
how it actually handles international traffic okay um
okay so eugene's asked what is the voice engine you're using for this 11 labs or
your own or something else okay so there's a lot of great stuff that's going on
we're doing a lot of stuff with proprietary information and processes. I can tell
you that 11 labs saw the stuff that we're doing and they want to acquire us, too.
Like, they're excited about this of what we're doing because we've actually solved
some hurdles that most companies can't figure out. Like our programmers and our
partners are some of
programmers, you know, in the biz, which is, which is great. Okay.
Next is, Shannon says, how do I know if our channel has a multi -track option?
Where do I look for that? That's in the training next week. Make sure you sign up.
We'll go from there. You should be able to see it in your upload section, but
we'll get into that training next week. When is next week's training? So what I'm
going to do is finish out this webinar right now. I'll get with my team member,
which is Brayden. He's the one that's the project lead for this specific company and
channel. And then, too, he's going to help with your onboarding. We'll actually
select a time. It'll probably be late next week. I got a lot going on between
Monday and Thursday. So it would probably be late next week, not on a Saturday.
It'll be during the work week for sure. And then, too, just let you know, it will
always be recorded. So if you can't get it live, you can go from there. However,
you would want to try to make it live because I'm going to be answering your
questions live. So that's cool. And it'll actually pull you on. Okay.
Do, do, do?
Yeah, if you actually signed up and you up at ditto dubbing .com,
didodubbing .com. If you signed up there, you'll actually get an email from me or
Braden that will say the training is coming out. Okay. All right. So let me just
kind of go on this other thing. This is something that I want you to understand
the lift. Okay. Part of my goal for you as a jump starter is for you to leverage
every opportunity to
a two months worth of content ready to go, you know. And all it would take is
just a few hours to get ready. And then you program and schedule a release and so
on. It's just amazing. Now, if you have back catalog and you're doing it on your
main channel because you have the multitrack, there's just adding the files there.
And ultimately, it's going to do what YouTube wants to do, which is extend the
reach. That's what they want to do. That's their goal. And you'll be right there.
So is it worth it? Absolutely. Absolutely. What I would say,
though, is just sign up and we'll go through a lot of training on this. You'll
definitely don't want to miss this.
Eugene's asking if we have an affiliate system for this. Yes. Right now,
there's no affiliates. Okay, we're the only people bringing people into didodubbing
.com. Okay, the reason why is we're honing the process and we're trying to make it
really easy, but I can tell you specifically, we'll talk about the affiliate. We
just need you to sign up and go from that. I think you're already signed up if I
see that right. But yes, this is going to be very thing. Now, here's the
interesting note. You cannot be approved as affiliate unless I approve you.
I guess that's what happens when you're an owner of the company,
which is great. Okay, so here's the thing. I just want to do in short, okay?
I want you all to understand this in short. Okay. YouTube is very hyper aware that
they want to make more money, and the easiest way for them to do that is to get
English -speaking content translated and localized into all the different markets. So
they've been pushing this really hard. Believe it or not, I did the very first case
study that YouTube ever did. And then I did the case study for them very
specifically into bringing on other creators to do it. I was part,
there's, like, I had three channels out of 10 that they did. And so I know the
ends announced of this. I understand where things are going. I know the roadmap
that's happening. And YouTube is very bullish when it comes to this type of action.
So right now, the best thing you can do is, is head on over. And I'll put the,
I'll put the,
let me see if I can get the, you want to head on over to ditto -debbing .com,
ditto -dubbing .com, and hit try ditto for free. Set your account. What we'll do is
notify you at the beginning of the next week when our webinar training is going to
be exclusively just for, just for channel jumpstart members. just for Channel
Jumpstart members, and those Channel Jumpstart members are going to go through it
first. Now, I've already done it. We already have quite a few people on in my
Mastery Group and my Inner Circle group. Okay, it's happening right now. They're
already a little bit further down the road than you guys, but that's okay. You guys
are going to be cutting edge, too, and that's why we're doing this training, and
we're going to get very, very specific on giving you how to leverage this as a
tool for a content creator. Okay, guys, thank you so much. And I really, really am
excited about 2024. We have a lot of great things that are going on. If you notice
my new studio, I'm getting all set. I am recording Channel Jump Start again.
So you're going to get Channel Jump Start 2 .0 this year. You are. We have new
tools. This is one of the tools that we're using. We have another tool that I
can't wait to show you it's a recon and research tool and it's also understanding
your viewer avatar that's coming out too and because you're a part of channel the
home start guess what you get it so i'm really excited about that can't wait for
you to uh really take 2024 by the the horns and and achieve what you want to
achieve and it's really about surrounding yourself by the right people and ultimately
making smart decisions and really treating this as a business now in closing i can
say
we were able to learn, we were able to have fun, have great food. It was amazing.
And then, too, we, you know, we're doing another retreat for our mastery students.
If you're not a part of group coaching or mastery, we're still meeting. We meet
several times a week. You know, we go in -depth. We have in -person, and it's off
the charts. I'm telling you it's off the charts. So if you're interesting about
that, just reach out to Justin or Jackson. They can get you the information on
that. We are planning for next year. We'll be announcing our next year retreat.
It's our big retreat where we go internationally somewhere. Can't wait for you to
find out about that. Now, that being said, we already went very granular for the
people that are there on this strategy for them. And so for us, this is a way for
you to be in the loop and going. I'm going to always benefit you as jump starters.
I'm going to do it. You never have to pay for channel jump start again. Once a
jump starter, always a jump starter. You can go through a new group. We have new
groups starting in a couple of weeks. You know, you can do that as well. Or when
the stuff refreshes, you can go through it. You don't have to pay again. However,
that's just the basis. That's just the foundation. What we do in group coaching and
inner circle and mastery, well, mastery in inner circle is where we really go
through the advanced stuff and really take it to that next level. And part of that
taking to the next level is understanding the ecosystem and the opportunity and
finding the tools and the processes to help you achieve more. So guys,
thank you so much. And we'll see you on the next one. Thanks, everyone.

PT5

Hey, hey, everybody. Welcome to this amazing channel Jumpstart group coaching call
today. What we've got going on is we have high level and one of our own students,
Joe, with us to show some amazing things that you as an entertainment company need
to take advantage of to think about you've gone through channel jumpstart you've
learned hey how do i build a community on youtube how do i grow my views grow my
audience and get returning viewers now that you have returning viewers now that you
have an engaged audience and and being able to cultivate that what are the next
steps to make sure that you're not living and dying on ad sense when it comes to
youtube so what do you do you say how can i gather their emails. How can I build
a deeper connection with my hardcore fans? And there are many platforms out there
that lots of people are using. We love high level. And that's why we've got them
on here. And also Joe himself, who introduced us to high level, showed some amazing
things. And within 90 minutes, what he was able to create with AI and automations
and pipelines and communities and video it's something really amazing that we think
all of you should definitely understand and see what you can do as well to grow
your deeper connections with your people. On that one, my one last little tidbit
that I want to share with all of you is that this isn't going to be like a one
-off type, oh, cool opportunity. It helps me as a creator to think different,
think deeper, further as an entertainment company, we've got other things. We've heard
quite a bit of you bring up things about, hey, how do I get brand deals? How do
I negotiate with companies that are reaching out and it's a 60 second ad and stuff
like that? So we've got a brand deal company that wants to come on and give you
guys value, teach you on what you need to do. Also, people that are selling
products. There's a thing like on Shopify, and we've seen it quite a bit. On
Shopify, it'll say, hey, you've got a nexus in this state or this location or in
this.
that they use to generate that AI, that image or whatever. So we've got lawyers and
we're going to jump on other dates and help all of you out. So this is going to
become a thing where it's maybe at least at the minimum once a month, maybe twice
a month on helping you guys out on more. And that means how to create and run
your entertainment business. So it's not just growing the views. That's channel
jumpstart. That's the base. That's the start of all. And now that you are all jump
starters, here's four.
Lou. So really excited for everyone today. We're going to be doing this very
frequently. This is training outside of what we normally do, because it is our
desire that you have long -term sustainability and profitability as your media company.
And the best way to do that is to own the data, like we talked about. And there's
so many things that you can do. And I just want to let you know, Seven years ago,
I actually started a TV show, and we really wanted to communicate to the audience.
And you can only do that so much with social media because, like, just the way
that it is. And so I want you to think this, when we talk and have these
trainings, is how do we deepen the relationship with the community that we're
building? And we how do we connect with them on a level where we can't on social
media because like everything has its place and so for our goal starting that show
seven years ago is like we we wanted to write for the one person we wanted to
write the post for the one person we wanted to comment it for the one person and
we wanted to have that personal experience and i want to i want to share with you
today i got a text it was just about an hour ago and it's a text message and
it's on my phone right here. And I just want to tell you that this is my partner,
Dallas Jenkins, and he is leaving a video message for people on his text list.
Okay. And we're talking, this list is well over half a million people. It's like
half a million people are getting this. And when you start seeing what you can do
with data, when you start seeing what you can do outside to really communicate, it's
really powerful. Now, I know in this text, and I'm going to just say this publicly,
and you have it as fine, we're just in channel jumps up for sure, but we'll
probably make about $200 ,000 for that text. And the reason why is he's going to
say, hey, there's stuff that's going on, and then he's going to give him a discount
code to the store to go buy something. And that's what he does, and that's going
to literally lead people to actually purchase. Now, what we do is not overburning
them with all these different offers. It's just we're very strategic. It's only for
the people for this list. They feel special. They're able to get it. And then, too,
they're able to get some type of discount. That's what we're talking about here. And
what I'm really excited about is if there's ever a person that I want you to learn
from, it's my brother Joseph. So this is my brother, Joseph. He did pay for Channel
Jones. I just want to make that clear he did pay he paid a lot of money i'm like
hey we're going to get the money back there um but um he he's uh definitely been
in this world a lot and uh when when i was using different services before and
he's like darrell don't be dumb come over here i'm like ah what he's going to show
you he showed me and i'm like i'm all in dude like sign me up sign me up and
he's like well you need to talk this person and Brittany, and we'll get you all
hooked up. And then Brittany hooked us up, got us going. And so what I want to do
is help you have the resources to develop what you need to develop to actually make
the most amount of money you possibly can, but more importantly, connect with your
community in ways that you can't right now. And I want it to be organized. And I
want it to be very specific. And so I want to turn the time over to my brother
Joseph and he's going to go through some things. And I hope that you're going to
show him some other really cool stuff to kind of blow their mind and go from
there. But he's going to help you really start to understand how to take that data
in, but also keep that personal relationship that will lead them closer to be
tighter in the community. Okay. Joe. Awesome. Thank Thank you. Okay. So the first
thing is, like, going through Channel Jumpstart and listening to Daryl a lot,
one of the things that he always has said is you need to own your own data. He
just proved it again on this call. Like, you need to have the data because you can
do a lot of stuff with that. So Christina Smallhorn, if you guys know her,
she's a business partner of mine, and we run a channel together.
And one of the things that she has is she has cultivated a Facebook group of over
20 ,000 realtors. So we have about almost 21 ,000 realtors in this group, and it's
growing. And we're consistently adding value. We know exactly who our avatar is.
We're speaking directly to them. But then it's always nagging me because when we,
in this group, we're trying to get them to transfer over and buy our course or do
whatever, you know. And the hard thing is, is Facebook sucks. And so,
like, we can't ever get notifications or they come, like, days after someone has
tagged this. So I was like, you know what, Daryl was always talking about pulling
data off, why don't we offer something for free and model a,
like what Daryl has done with, you know, a 30 -day challenge. And we're like, maybe
we could get realtors. And it was towards the end of the year. So we knew like,
okay, people are going to be setting goals. They're going to be doing things. And
so we built a 30 -day challenge funnel. And Justin,
am I able to share my screen? Of course you're you're a host all right so what we
did is we built this um we built this can you guys see it okay yep all right so
we built this funnel and all it is is it's a it's a very simple funnel that's
just saying hey you know we made a post of like if you're if you're If you're
stagnant, if you're not getting your videos out on YouTube, you know, join. And we
made a quick little video that Christina and I, and she's in Louisiana. So I'm
filming in Utah. She's filming in Louisiana. Then we edit it together. Basically, we
have this video that kind of reinforces the posts that we made on this Facebook
group. And then we had, you know, ready to join the challenge. And I love all of
these little features. You don't need to be a programmer to do all this stuff, but
there's a little wobble here on this. It kind of drives the eye. It's like, hey,
join the course, sign it for free. And then we have some, basically some social
proof to say, hey, we know what we're talking about on this, and then give me
access. Now, we're actually getting people that are signing up, even though this is
closed because we left the community open. But what I want to show you is how
powerful this is. So we built an email list just from this. We got,
I want to say, 1006 or something like that that signed up off of one Facebook post
into this group. And so we're peeling off all of these people that are in the
Facebook group. and then what we have is we have this community. So we're moving
them, and this is all in high level, all of this. So we're not having to like
connect up to all these different things, but we have our 30 -day challenge. And
then what we did is we had them come in and post every day come back.
Part of the challenge and part of one of their tasks to do for that challenge was
to come to the community and post because we wanted them to start getting familiar
with coming here. And then when they come here, then they obviously can comment,
there's chats, all these cool features. But what's great is we just peeled them off
from Facebook and now we have a very captive audience. And there's some gamification.
There's a bunch of other stuff that we incorporated in this, but we got this kid
right here. So like this was back in December, the end of December, and he's like,
day 30, wow, what a journey. My biggest win was discovering, you know, my avatar,
blah, blah, blah, all this stuff, right? But like, they were able to comment and do
all that. But here's what's the, here's what's super powerful about all of this is
Justin mentioned that we, that we built this in, or can you see the,
can you see the actual workflow now?
Or are you still on the page? What are you on? We can see the workflow. You're
showing your whole window, so we're good. Okay, cool. All right. Sorry, I don't know
if I'm, because I got two different screens here. So anyway, so what we did is
really quickly made a form and then in that form, which is from this page here.
So if they clicked on this, there would be, a form would be there and they could
sign up. So they would fill out the form we tagged them so we knew where we got
this lead from and then there was an internal notification that would notify us and
then there was a welcome email and this is what the welcome email look like and
basically we built a welcome to you know geek your channel and then here's the 30
day challenge and then we have a template and we've got 30 templates in here it
sounds like a lot but we really did it with chat gpt less than, it took us longer
to film the videos because we do like a little 30 second intro on each of the of
the things. But then what it did is it granted them access to the community. So
they automatically got put into this community. And then I had it wait because we
had it start on December 1st. So there were people that were signing up back in
like November or whatever. And so, so then what it does is the day that it goes
live, we had a text go out. Hey, and then the tag for the first name,
the 30 day challenge starts today. Check your emails for all the details. Let's get
started. Let's do this. Chat GPT also did all of these things. All I had to do is
literally put in this tag, which you can do in a custom value right here. So it
was super easy. And then it was personal. And then we had our emails go out.
And then here's the email of Christina talking about, you know, like what it was.
And then it just is this. This is just a workflow now. It just waits one day all
the way to day 30. So it seems like,
and there's still people, look at that. There's still people going through this. And
We closed it and they're still like going through. So a lot of them didn't open
their email. And then we had it completed the 30 -day challenge after they've
actually done everything. And then we removed them from this workflow so that it
doesn't go over again. But that's that's really how easy this is. Hey, Joe, let me
just take one second.
Like what you're trying to do is create a flow of engagement.
And every step is the flow of what's going to happen.
and have your campaigns. So we have a campaign right here, which is your 30 -day
challenge. And right there, you can see,
like, well, you can see, like, look at the time, how long it took me to make. A
minute, a minute, two minutes. And a lot of it is literally the builder,
I just cloned this every time and then swapped out this information right here and
then swapped out a video. And the video we just have on Loom, so we just put it
in, and so you'd have a little animation so they could see it. And ultimately,
it did really, really well. And the campaign, you also have like statistics of like,
let me go in here.
So 30 day, like look at the open rate and look at the delivery rate.
So we had like 99 % of the people, 70 % opened it,
10 % clicked. So we had really, really good. And then obviously you can get into
the weeds with all the people that actually went through this. And this is
ultimately like who we knew clicked on it, who we knew was super interested. So
then we could target them with other automated workflows for them to sign up to the
course. So that was that was it's super powerful to understand and know like the
like the numbers and what people are doing. And yeah, it's a smaller list, but
we're already building that's now we have this thing built. So we just turn it on
once a quarter now. And we can we can bring more people into this like once a
quarter. So it's it's just super powerful with the way you can do it.
And then the and then the other cool thing
We'll let the high -level team kind of explain that. But you can just say,
oh, I want a 30 -day creator challenge on it, or I want a challenge on it. And
you can take the snapshot and you'd have everything. All you got to do is just
start filling in the blanks, like all the things that need to be done. So it's
like literally you don't have to even think about it. And then two, just want to
let you know, we are doing snapshots of anyone that's in my inner circle or
mastery, when they have something I think is really cool,
they've already agreed to share it with everyone. So if we're doing stuff cool,
we're going to share it out so you can actually just take the clone of it, the
snapshot of it, and run and save you a ton of time, and you just need to change
out a few things that would make it more personal for you. Yep.
Yeah, I just sent just on the link to the cleaned up snapshot so that it has
everything, what they need, literally to just plug and play, and then,
like you said, just swap out your content. But it's, I mean, even the,
like the funnel, like if you go into the, let me do this one because I just built
it. So if you go into the funnel here,
you can see how easy it is to edit. So you don't have to be a designer to do
this stuff. Like it's literally drag and drop. And then you can just put your stuff
in here. You have, you know, obviously you wanted your thumbnail designer. So this
is a thumbnail, right? But like all of this, you can have a countdown. We did have
a countdown by the way. So it was doing a countdown to the time. But like all of
this stuff is literally just bag and drop. I can literally move any of this stuff
around if I wanted to move it up or down. Very easy. The other thing that's
amazing about this is it formats for mobile. So you can see how it would look
mobile. And you can actually build different versions within the same funnel so that
people that are, you know, if they're loading it on their phone or whatever, they're
still able to go in and make any of the changes but like changing colors changing
the text is like literally just typing it's like that easy so it's and the thing
is like Justin said it took us longer to film the 30 -second videos than it did to
build this whole workflow like the it's very it might seem overwhelming but the high
-level team has done an amazing job of making things like very intuitive. So it's
like once you understand workflows, like I think for me, like that's when everything
changes. It's just it becomes so much easier. And then it's up to your imagination
of how you want to, how you want to bring people in. But it's also nice to have
an actual snapshot to work off of. And they've built some really good ones for
channel jumpstart that I've looked at and yeah you guys have like a head start on
it yeah and we'll be we'll be adding to those snapshots um you know anytime that
we have a training that we're going through it and we're showing hey this is really
cool or we do a case study that snapshot will be available for you but um let me
let me just say about the 30 day creator challenge like when we did that for um
for me it was a creator challenge and I'm like oh this is really cool um I I
literally just had, you know, someone write all the emails, insert the videos that
would go back to the channel. And all I wanted to do, and the goal was, can I
get them to succeed? If so, they're going to book a call. And if they book a
call, they're spending $1 ,000 or they'll go buy a book. So it's like, hey, way top
of the funnel and go through it. What Joseph's doing is a little bit different. So
he took, oh, this is a great thing you've done here, I can do my own challenge.
However, I can make a community behind it and using high level instead of going on
Facebook or whatever. It's like, no, it's a controlled place. It feels like, oh, I'm
here. I'm not getting distracted by everything else. And it can actually be a great
community that will also give data to you as the company that you can use later.
And that's the most amazing thing of all time is when you start getting active in
it, then it's going from there. And then we're just like to, you know, we're
moving,
I don't know, Justin, can I say this? You can always say what you want. You're the
president. I got to be careful what I say here. But we're moving all of what our
communities over to this now. I mean, this year it would be definitely instituted on
it. And the whole reason why when we really break it down is because we want a
more private touch and there's certain things that we can do. But when it comes to
automation, when it comes to really getting you what you need, it's like why try to
do it over here when it's like 10 extra steps instead of just saying, look, it's
all built, all ready to go. When we do a training, we know what needs to happen,
like we don't need to do it. It just automatically will happen because we can just
put it into that module and then it will go, oh, okay, emails go out. Here's the
follow -up sequence, blah, blah, blah, X, Y, or Z, right? And it's just like, wow,
that's so beautiful. And then, too, you know, anytime that we show a model, you
might say, I don't see a way where I would do a challenge. It just makes no sense
to me. You don't need to do it, but you want to come on these trainings because
this might give you an idea of like, oh, this is a really cool follow -up sequence.
I might want to learn from this and apply it over here. And you could do it like
contest -driven. There's a lot of different ways that you can go from there. But I
really do love what Joe and Christina has done when they've done it here.
And I just want to put a little note just so everyone really understands what's
going on here. The first step is collecting data. We just need an email and we
need a name. And then you slowly start gathering the data because this is the place
where all the data is going to come together and you can start getting birthdays
and you can start getting addresses and, you know, addresses and, you know, so on
and so forth. And so like, like I've done some pretty amazing things and I want to
share one with it. It wasn't with high level. This was long before high level was
even around, but nine years ago, I had this weird idea that at a concert,
okay, it was at a concert, it was almost 10 years ago, at a concert, that they
would scan a QR code to give us their name and their email.
Now, we already had their cell phone because at that time, right? And so everybody
was in the concert, they did a QR code, and they put their thing in. And we were
able to see exactly how many people in that group was actually doing it. So we had
over 60 % of the people that attended was able to do that. Now, the cool thing
about it was they didn't know what they were citing themselves up for. And I wanted
to prove to the people that I was promoting for that I could make more money on
the drive home and in 24 hours, and they could selling merchandise at the concert.
And they thought I was just up in the night, right? But here was the cool thing.
They started to drive home, and everyone started to get these voicemails, and it
started to go into a voicemail. And that was the time we could do that. Now
there's a couple things we had to opt in before you could do it. But at the time,
you didn't. It was like Wild West back then. And so anyway, the voice note was
this. Hey, guys, we're just so grateful you came for the concert. We know that we
just really love the support. You know, this has been so great. And this is why we
got into music. And that's why we do our YouTube videos. It's just so amazing. And
just because you come, we're going to give you 35 % off in our store. And here is,
like, it is just for you. It's only for you, exclusive. And I'm here to tell you
guys, we did 5X more revenue than they did at the concert selling the same stuff,
you know? And it was just like this moment of connection and going deeper. So we're
all in on high level and we're going to be having these training. But I just want
you to remember it's all about the data. And once you have the data, it's like
you're able to communicate in new ways. And you're able to help nurture them from
maybe a casual person to a Ravid fan or a casual person to a customer. That's what
it's all about. Joe, are you going into any more depth or is this the basis of
the training? No, I can go into as much depth as they want. Who wants your mind
blown? Put it in the comments real quick. Just say, hey, I want to blow your mind.
Just put it in
Um, so, so if he would have showed me the 30 day greater challenge funnel,
I would have go, yeah, good job, Joe. Like, I, I would do it. Can you just take
a minute? Um, we're going to, well, maybe, um, maybe we'll do this. Okay, hold on.
Maybe we'll take some questions here about the funnel stuff. And then after that, I
I want Joseph to blow your mind of how he's actually integrated high level to
replace workers that he had to hire, whatever, or he was always on the phone.
As long as I know, he was always on the phone. It's like gave him more time back
and was able to really transform his business. If you want to see that, go ahead
and put it in the comments. And I'm telling you, when I saw that, I'm like, okay,
sign me up. Where am I on? Like, why are we not doing this yet?
actually answers all of our incoming calls. We just merged with another property
management company and took over over 70 rentals along with some HOAs and we did
not bring any of their staff over. And I have one full -time girl and one part
-time girl here and one in Logan. And we didn't need their staff.
And we also just barely inked to deal with another really big HOA but everything
that everything that we're doing is linked with high level and linked with AI and
automation so we have AI chat bots now where people can ask and that's been around
for a minute and there's a lot of that stuff but what we really have is we have
like an AI it's it's Lily and basically Lily answers all of our H .A.
All of our HOA questions, all of our questions with appointment booking,
with all of those things. And so do you guys, I'll call it real quick here. So
give me one second.
So what this is, is, and this is all tied into high level. I don't know if you
guys can hear this or not.
Think property management. This is Lily. How can I help you? Hey, Lily. My name's
Joe, and I've got a daughter going to school in the fall in Logan,
and I was wondering if you guys had any available rentals.
Hi, Joe. Yes, we do have some options in Logan. Are you looking for student
housing, like Old Main Village or something else like Hawks Landing? I'm on the
website for Old Main Village, but I just had a couple questions.
Main Village is high speed. So video chatting should be smooth. As for ESA animals,
yes, they are allowed with the proper documentation and licenses. That's awesome.
Yeah, can we do a, how do I do a tour? I'd like to go look at it.
Great. To schedule a tour of Old Main Village, you can visit Logan Rentals .net and
click on the old main village option there you'll find the most up -to -date
information and can arrange a showing okay well if I was driving could you text
that link to me instead
let me transfer you and then it'll and then it will text and then hang up so so
what happens is we have that system and then what it what happens is they go to
Logan Rentals and then everything from there is a workflow for an appointment setting
system so I don't do you do they want to see you want me to show you that I
just wanted to show that just because this this is really really cool and the world
with technology and data is like really coming together quick and I know everyone's
had some type of experience with with this type of stuff. But what I'm saying is
just to implement something. Like right now, I did a test for one of the companies
that we had because Justin says, you're going to do a test. And he put it into
our little group. And I did a test. And it was like 11 o 'clock at night. And I
was like doing the same thing Joe did, but it was like related to the whole thing.
And it was like answering questions, doing the whole thing. And I'm like, man, that
just solves a lot of problems. Now, you know, I knew it was like an AI response,
but I was getting answers to my questions, right? And it wasn't like they were
wrong answers, too. They were bad answers. And it really got down to the point
where it worked really well. Now, my whole thing is if a lot of the stuff's on
autopilot, but also can trigger events that happens in high level that can take them
even deeper or give them information on it, this is really going to take off. So I
know we're using it when I start doing version 2 of the YouTube formula, we're
going to put it in our whole event sequence. So when people come in,
like we want to be able to have this all automatically handle it so that emails
and voice notes and text messages and, you know, websites, all the stuff that they
need to is being fulfilled. And that's the whole reason why we're doing these
trainings is just to kind of open your eyes for the possibility. But then, two,
give you the snapshots so you can go do it yourself. Like that, that's what we
want to do with you not have to rethink about it. And then anyone that we bring
on, we want to go from there. So I just wanted to show that, Joe. I think what
we would be great is maybe open it up to some questions on the effectiveness,
but I can tell you, the number one, the number one selling of Channel Jumpstart
before the book came out was my creator challenge. There's not, it wasn't even a
close second because it led to it. And we tried to funnel people. It was like, oh,
hey, they know my videos. They saw my videos. They did a creator challenge. If I
can get them to succeed, then they'd pick up the phone and call and they'd either
do a consult or want to go deeper. And if they wanted to go deeper, it was
already set for an application for Channel Jump Start. Some of them got really
paranoid because of the $6 ,000, you know, entry level on it when they would pay $1
,000 and I would do a one -hour console and then I'd hand it over to Jessica,
because Justin was doing at the time and he would sell him another $6 ,000. We made
$7 ,000 off of them. And that was leading them to what we wanted to do. But what
I'm saying is all this is built here, you know, as the backbone, as a platform,
and you can pretty much do everything that you're using five, six, seven services
all here. And that's why we're all in is because we're the founders of high level,
kind of their vision, we've got to spend some time with them. And then two, they're
not just like a flash in the pan. We're like, oh, go, go sell and we'll all make
money and we'll do this. No, they're always constantly improving their tech. Like,
I've never seen a company more obsessive with it. More assessive with it. So that's
why we're doing this. And then, too, I think the tech roadmap is one of the best
I've seen. And so I'm really, really excited about that. So I think there's some
questions here, Justin. Let's see. Do we have a couple questions? We had Shavcom
asked, were you using only email email or SMS?
We did SMS to let them know, and then we did emails, but you can do,
you can do whatever. Like if you want to add an SMS with that, you can.
Awesome. And then let me scroll back up. I asked everyone, if you got a question,
go ahead, post it. And then we're going to be throwing it over to high level as
well here in just a second.
Jordan asks, he's assuming, is hosting included with high level? Yeah, the hosting's
included. You will need to have like a domain like on like written, you know, like
Go Daddy or whatever, wherever your registrar is. But it's super easy to connect.
Awesome. They're also wondering, so you did this 30 day career challenge. How did
you connect it to selling your product, your course as well? What was the? Okay, so
Darrell actually just barely touched on that. So the thing that happened is we got
these guys that they were looking for a change. They saw this free challenge and
they went all in and got results because they started focusing on like the things
that we talked about in each of these 30 days. And so what that ended up doing is
it got them getting momentum. And then they were like, if this is what they're
giving away for free what is their course like that they're selling because this is
amazing and we and we sold six off of that so i mean it's it literally made us a
little over 20 000 in 30 days and so was that built into your emails and your SMS
on the next steps yeah uh -huh yeah because because then so what happened is once
they signed up for that it's all automated so then so then they get right into the
course and then they get granted access and then there's a follow -up system for all
of that too like all of our courses and everything is all built in high level I
don't when I saw like I saw an ad and they were like you can get rid of all
your other software like click funnels kajabi like all these things that I was using
and I was spending probably 1500 a month and I was like if I can really get rid
of all these things for this, then I take my money because it,
it literally not only is better, but their core, if you're a course builder, they
look, it looks very similar to Gujavi, like the UI, the UX design and everything.
And then the, the funnels look very similar to like what a click funnels 1 .0 was.
So it's really, it's really easy to transition. Awesome. Jeff asks,
Awesome. Jeff asks, why did you need chat GPT to generate any emails? What prompts
did you use? I took our content from our course and I had it break it up into a
30 day challenge and it wrote it all for me. So it gave the challenge. It pulled
relevant information from our course and then it created it all for me. So it was
very, very specific to our avatar. Awesome. So basically you said, hey, here's my
course content, we're wanting to build a 30 -day creator challenge with 30 emails and
have someone follow it sequentially to have success. Can you create those 30 emails?
And do a call to action and have and and the call to action, there's going to be
two, one, to do something and two, to go post it on the community that we just
created.
Awesome. They had to post that they did the, that they did the challenge. That was,
that was what got them going. And then because the system is so seamless, like,
well, can I share my screen one more time? Of course. So what, what happened is
let me see. While you're doing that, I'm going to answer Brandon's question or
Alexis, I'll let you answer this one. Can you migrate people who are part of a
membership in Kijabi over to high level. Oh, yes. And hi, guys. I'm Alexis.
I'm the customer success manager over a high level. So, yes, we actually, we have
a, we actually have guides for different softwares,
including Khadjavi. So if you do need to migrate your members, you should be able
to export the members from your Khadjabi course and then move them, import them into
high level as contacts. What that requires requires you to build that course, right?
You have your course and then you need to package it up in high little we like to
call it an offer that allows you to price it and decide if it's going to be free
or include other products as well. But once you have that complete offer, now we
can associate those offers, aka courses with a specific with the context that you've
imported from Kajabi. And you can always, We have a lot of support on this side
for you to, like, walk you through that further and we're in doubt. Yeah. So I
want to talk to, who did you say it was? It was Brandon?
Justin, who was question? That had the question? Yeah. Let me see here. Migrate.
Yeah, it was Brandon Robbins. Oh, okay. Hey, Brandon, you just launched a book. And
congratulations on that. I'm super excited for you. And this is what I want you to
think is the next time you do it, because you'll write another book because this is
going to be an amazing thing. It's about the chosen, by the way, guys. I'm really
excited about that. But you could have done all your pre -cells and stuff before.
Like, hey, get on the waiting list, and you'll be the first to announce. And then
that will actually lead them to, hey, come on the special little webinar that we're
really going to give you a discount or something that's special there. or here's
some things that they are old.
And then, two, once you start bringing value with the customer like this, then it's
just like, oh, hey, it'll be easy to notify all these people that have this
specific tag that went through the Creator Challenge to offer them this free training
that will lead them to a sell or whatever it may be. It's just like, the sky is
the limit. And that's what I really love about this one versus others that you're
like, oh, okay, to do that. You know, there's a lot of steps. And this is is more
just put the workflow in and automate it yeah it's it's great and they're in going
to your point on that darrell like what they so this is the 30 day challenge right
then they can look at learning and then all the sudden right here they can click
on the course we offer a free course and then our other courses right so from
there you literally can go right into the course and And this is why it's so
powerful is because it's one login. Okay? So you have one login for that. The
beautiful thing about this as well is once you have people that are in the course,
you can set up events. So now every, you never have to go anywhere else to know
when the Zoom call is, what the Zoom call link is. You can add it to your
calendar. You can do all these things. And you can see when it's scheduled. And if
we wanted to do a special event, We could make an event. You could make it a paid
event if you want just specifically for this. So like to your point on this is
transitioning someone that is someone that's interested in it.
And then this is like a private group now. So this is a group of people that are
actually going through the course. Right. So they have that. And you can easily slip
through a 30 day challenge and have other channels, just like you would on Slack,
except for it's all in one place. So you don't have to, you don't have to do
that. But having, we did have like one live stream that we did.
But what's amazing is once you funnel them over, or even if it's an open group and
you want people to discover it, it's totally fine. But the power of being able to
keep everybody with one login, one place they can do everything. And when they sign
up, they can get automatically,
Getting them into a course like this and the community is so good. And you don't
have to move anybody. They've got the chat feature. You've got notifications. It's
amazing. Yeah. So this last part, Alexis, I want to turn you over to you. I think
you want to show some snapshots that we have and get them excited. We do have a
hard stop at 11. So we got about 15 minutes. But guys, I can't wait for you to
see what Alexis has to show you. So go ahead, Alexis. Awesome. Thanks, Daryl.
Let me go ahead and share my screen.
You guys can join me.
All right, cool. So here's the snapshot where we, here's the sub -account where we
built your shot. And we're going to cover some of the offers that are including the
snapshot. We're giving you quite a lot. And I want to start with the 30 -day
challenge. The 30 -day challenge as a flow or that process that Darrell had
mentioned, how they start from how they go from leads to being, you know, crazy
about you fan fanatics. So we have that in pipeline.
We're using actually opportunities and pipelines to help you track where people are
at in that process from when they opt in using a form and providing their
information. And there's an automation on the back end that is bringing these
contacts in. And we're tracking when they've opened the email from when they joined
the group. If they've logged in, we have all that ability. We have that ability is
using the power of workflows. And then you can then cross -sell them into other
offers that we have included in the snapshot. So there's a YouTube formula, one
product offer that we have. I know there was a question about that in the group.
So we do have that if you want to sell a physical product. We have the one -hour
consultation. If you want to be able to promote calls at some point and be able to
track which of the people in that joined your community, uh, wanted to book a call
with you or purchase a call. And then if they purchase channel jump start, let's
say they wanted to purchase another program, a course, um, as well. So there's a
lot of fluidity between these different offers. So let's talk about the 30 day
challenge automations. How do we figure out how someone ends up in the opt -in stage
versus the open email or the joint group. So now that we built this pipeline
structure, if I take you over to our automations, it's the play button here.
We have them organized in folders, so it's easy for you to navigate once you import
the snapshot. Look for the 30 DCC folder, and they're also in numerical order as
well to correspond with the pipelines. And so there's a little description there for
you and you'll be able to see how many people have been enrolled inside of that
workflow. I don't expect you to go inside of the workflow to see how many people
are enrolled, but that is a tool that you have. You'll find that there are some
notes in here as well that we've left for you, but you'll see that each workflow,
each workflow has a trigger and your trigger is going to be based off of our 30
-day challenge form and the 30 -day challenge form is embedded on a funnel. Once that
form is submitted, we're going to add a tag. So Alexis entered the,
it filled out the form. Now you're going to be able to search my contact and find
this tag, this 30 DCC tag. So you know how many people are at that first step.
And then we're adding them to the pipeline. And so we've assigned a pipeline and a
stage, we are using this dynamic key to personalize in each contact opportunity card
that we looked at earlier, and we're marking that status as one. You can always
expand on this moving forward, but that's all that first workflow does. The next one
is workflow number two, this email flow, cool stuff.
You think about as in like dominoes. Workflows can work together. They can cancel
each other out. But this is a good example of the tag being added,
30 DCC, actually being the trigger for this second workflow. And that's where our
email flow is here. Our email flow includes, I think,
35 days of email copy. And that email copy is already populated for you when you
install the snapshot. I would recommend you going in, go ahead and add your own
images that represent your brand. And then we have some other custom values that
you, that are plug and play. So that way we're showing your creator name as well.
And then we're showing, we're personalizing the email with the contact's first name
as well. But the structure of the workflows built for you, you would just update
the copy. Now at day 15, we will then check if you open any of the emails.
And as you remember back in our pipeline structure, that's how we are able to check
and update the opportunity. So this is a wait step. Hey, we're going to wait for
them to open day 15 if they opened it within one day. And then there's a timeout.
What if what happens if it's going to time out? Awesome. We're going to keep it
moving and to keep it moving to day 17 or are we going to just update the
opportunity? So then moving them to open email. So all we're doing is moving the
opportunity card. But it continues on. And then later on, you will see that there
will be cross -selling email copy and I encourage you doing the same as well.
Exclusive offer want even more success. This is towards the end of the challenge.
Hey, so glad you've completed a 30 -day challenge and now we can add, you know,
your other products. What's, what digital product are you selling? What's the name of
your book? Those values will be populated once you get your snapshot and you have
the chance to update those custom values. So it's showing something specific to you
as a creator.
Moving along. So if they join the challenge, how do we track that? Super cool,
right? So it does require you to create a group. And I didn't want to, I want to
make sure to let you know that we have a resource article and video over in our
high level support portal. You can learn how to set up, customize, and manager
communities. We have videos, we have support there for you with usage cases as well,
even learning how to update your branding and promotional links. We also have an
example. You looked at Joe's example of the community. You even have our own high
-level community. We use our own products where you can see full -fledged. We have
channels just like you would have in Discord. We are also using, you know, the
learning and the events. We have a leaderboard as well to see who has interacted
the most. And you can, you know, see the current members ban them if you need to
and moderate that content.
So moving fast here. Now, if they join the group, right, you've created the group.
Now we can use this trigger group access granted and your groups will show up here.
And then all it does is it moves them in the pipeline, join groups. Whether it was
2 a .m. you were sleeping or you were grocery shopping, you already know exactly
who's in your group. So we can go back to workflows. I'd love to show you the
other one. So if they purchase any cross -selling opportunity, let's say like a, they
book a one -hour consultation. This is an optional flow, but you can say,
hey, if they've used a book, the one -hour consultation call and they have the 30
DCC, they're automatically going to get moved over to the purchase one -hour
consultation. So that's the first, that's just one of the offers and the other one
does the same thing if they purchase the YouTube formula, which we're going to go
into next with the remaining time and just updates their opportunities.
So the pattern you'll see in our, in this quick discussion of some of the offers
we have in the snapshot is we're building the business structure first, looking at
the individual stages, right, opt in, what do we need for that? We need a form. We
need people to visit the site. So we need to make a landing page, which we have
already there for you in the snapshot. And then we're looking at this next step.
what do we need to do to nurture that customer to that next step do we need to
track if they open an email right that means what does that mean for you if the
customer can move to that next step all the way until they're you know they're
crazy about you they're purchasing something or they're a part of your community so
let's move into the other offers so they're all in folders here for I do want to
talk about the YouTube formula. Let me just scroll over to my notes.
So the YouTube formula was designed to give you access to a high -level course and
then also access to an e -book. So there's a funnel page.
It's very simple two steps. First step, hey, do you want my book? Here's why it's
awesome and amazing. And with an order form.
at school, but people are motivated in different ways. And so this pipeline and the
automation associated with it should help you at least start, build, have that
framework for motivating your students. And you can do so in different ways. We can
talk about that. So there's interest shown, didn't purchase, and we are tracking that
from the second they go on the order form. There are two types of order forms
within high level. One, you may have seen where we collect their information. It
says, please go to next step two. And then it takes them over to their card
information. That is a two -step order form. And that is where we can track from
the moment they just decide to take step one and don't even enter their card
information, they're going to end up here. So let's head over back to Automations.
I'd love to take you over there.
So
physical products.
Here to see. We have an email flow. All of this is about nurturing them.
Hey, you got to purchase to the next step. And so it starts from them submitting
the form. And I know when I say form, it doesn't sound right. It's like, this is
an order form. This is where they purchase. Well, we're checking the submission type
from when they're opt in to sale. So know that those are distinguishable. And then
we're moving them and adding them to the pipeline immediately. We're adding them to
the one product digital purchase, a physical digital interest shown didn't purchase
with their name yet again. And then we're going to have to decide, okay, how long
are we going to wait, right? How long is it going to take for them to fumble
around and find their card. So we are going to wait one hour.
nurturing them for the next five days, like, hey, you haven't entered your car and
you still want this. Go ahead and move on to the next step and nurturing them,
staying at the top of their mind. Now, if they purchase it, awesome, you want to
congratulate them, but we don't want that five -day workflow to keep firing off. That
would be annoying, right? Just to get that over and over again. So workflows can
work yet again work together. So by someone changing the submission type of their
sale of their order from opt in to sale, perfect.
We can now remove them from that other workflow. And so now you know that we have
an action removed from workflow. We can remove people from all workflows if needed.
And that's how this, we created an abandoned cart sequence that you may be familiar
with with any advertisement that you may have started but never finished. So we are
then updating their opportunity when we make a sale. Awesome. They're enrolled in the
course.
Now because there's a different set, there's a different part with memberships where
you can associate the product purchase with a course. That's not in here, but it is
implied. So They already have access to the course. They've already gotten an email
notification. We're going to send them an email. Awesome. Welcome to the course.
Here's what you need to do, right? We're walking them in. You're going to need to
give them a little bit of support. And then you're going to wait seven days. We're
going to keep giving them extra support. And this continues. And then we're going to
check, hey, have they completed the 30 -day challenge? This is where we can start
making sure that we are personalizing where, which, where the customer is coming
from, if they completed the 30 day challenge, if I've completed the 30 day challenge
already and I just purchased YouTube formula, I probably don't want to be nurtured
for the same, for the same offers twice. And so yet again,
we are using tags, like the 3DCC tags and 3DCC Complete to check as to which
emails we're going to be sending them. So just so you can be aware of really
thinking about when you're cross -selling and how you can make sure and add these
other checkpoints within your workflows.
Speeding up here because I got 60 seconds. Hey, no worries. Darrell had to jump
off, but you can keep going. And then I've got some stuff as well. So if you
don't have to go, keep going. Okay, perfect. I don't. I'd love to show you guys
stick around. So how I want to go back to keeping people motivated,
right? So now we're at the step where they're part of the group and you want to
make sure that they keep walking it. And you don't expect to be up late in night,
you know, checking all the hours of the day, focus at looking at our membership
analytics and figuring out, okay, how far have you made it? How far have you made
it? Or asking them even. So we can track user logins. And by tracking user logins,
we can tag that person as an active learner and create a cool down period. Awesome.
So as long as they have that for 70, as long as they have that active learner
tag, right? This is going to fire off each time. Awesome. I log in. I'm an active
learner. I log in. I'm an active learner. But let's say I take a week long break.
Now I've exceeded that period where of waiting 72 hours, it's going to put me at
this next step. If it's been over 72 hours, you need to remove me as an active
learner. And by removing me as an active learner, now we're going to tag me as an
inactive learner. Let's talk about the next workflow to talk about what we can do
when someone is tagged in Active Learner and when someone has the Active Learner tag
removed. This is where we can go into motivating people. On an abstract level,
right, people are motivated in different ways. So you may update this email copy for
the next workflow to be follow -up needed in Active Learner for 72 hours.
This one just sends them an email, but you may include, you know, other forms of
connecting with them. But if that tag is removed, now we're going to update the
opportunity again. So you can use opportunities. Use the one product digital physical
to track who needs follow up.
And then you're going to send them a motivational email. Hey, I noticed you're,
you know, you started your course, you're a little stuck in the middle, jump back
in now. And then we're using custom values that once again, plug and play with your
own course URL to get them back in.
We can wait another 72 hours because at some point we're going to have the workflow
is going to have to check again. Well, do they open the email? That's at least a
sign that, you know, they're trying. Maybe they're in the middle. Maybe the student
or the bumber is in the middle of something. So we can check using weight events,
a different weight event called waiting for an email event, and we can check that
last email that we sent and check for certain events. I would typically check for
opened if you're worried, if you're curious about someone being engaged, or if you
need them to take a certain action, you can track for clicks as well. But at
minimum, if they opened it, that at least means that you can nurture them a bit
more. So we're just checking for a pulse. We're going to wait one hour if the
email is open. So we're just not seeming like a bot like, oh my God, you opened
it. You're here. And it's like, oh, but we're just going to wait one hour. And
you're going to say, hey, you've got this. I saw you, you know, you're back on
track.
You've already put in the effort because they just opened the email, the hardest
part is behind you, and then we're nurturing them again. Go ahead and go log back
in. We're going to add the tag inactive learner, opened email,
so we can take a slightly different approach. It's like, what help do you need?
What roadblocks do you have versus the people that, let's say, they don't open the,
what if they don't open the email after 72 hours? We have to decide what's going
to happen there too. So don't let, we're going to nurture them in a different way.
We might be more direct. Get back on track. Hey, your course is ready for you. We
need to go over the key benefits. And this template is here for you. So you can
fill in the key templates of your course and helping them log back in. You're going
to wait one more day. Just check for a pulse. See if they open the email. And
then we will then tag them inactive, learn, or no response if they go one more day
without responding. If they do open it, let's send them the same email. But why do
we have to copy, you know, the same steps into this branch,
right? We can just actually use our go -to step. And a go -to -step enables you to
take your contact to wherever in the pipeline, in the workflow you want. So we have
a go -to step pointing to the exact same steps as someone who has opened the email.
So we don't have to do those additional steps.
Everyone can take a quick breather. If you want to stick around, I know with those
a lot. So Alexis, I'm going to take two seconds. I know you've shared a lot. I
want to let everyone know about the support they're going to receive afterwards. So
what that is is there's going to be a link. I'll drop it down right now. Oh,
wrong text. There. Let me go grab it. So a couple of things is we have a course
for you that high level is created and it's in this wonderful area on in the chat
right now where if you go to high
dot com you can sign up and there's 22 videos on how to onboard and get going on
with using high level also the email will go out with this link plus you're going
to have access to the snapshots with the the link to share all these snapshots all
these automations that alexis has developed for us and also that joe has developed
for us as well because It's all about creator helping creator here. So this is a
great little course to help you. So if you're like, okay, this is above me or you
got a team member, like, okay, we need to take all this stuff and put it into one
place, awesome, high level, incredible that way. If you're like, oh, you know what,
you love it, we love all of our other stuff, this is a great opportunity to look
and see what is working to help you out as well. But There's the link right there
in the chat. And then later this afternoon, an email will go out with this link,
also the snapshots and all of that Alexis is built for us and also what Joe has
built for us. Okay.
And don't mind if I just put it on everyone's radar. If you already have a high
level account already, we have a town hall coming up on March 6th for all high
level users where they can meet with our community product managers so you can meet
with see what's what features are upcoming for the communities that Joe Joe has
shown you and that what could work that would be compatible with the snapshot that
you will receive so if you ever want to learn more about that I'll be going ahead
and dropping the upcoming product town halls at high level and the link in in the
chat very soon
leaving leaving, taking it back to you, Justin. Okay, awesome. Well, everyone, looking
at the time, we kind of ran over six minutes. I know we didn't have a, I did a
horrible job at this, and I apologize. My heart, Alexis and Brittany, I did not
introduce you in the beginning. And I apologize. Brittany, take two seconds, introduce
yourself because you've been in the chat. I saw you saying hi to Amber and a
couple of people know you. I'm fired. Probably.
actually created that with Justin and a few others from the team for like a while
just so we can make the process for you guys a lot easier to implement because we
know with a lot of creators you guys like to, you know, want to be able to sell
products easily, be able to, you know, nurture your audience, keep your audience off
of, you know, other proprietary platforms and ultimately one space for yourself. And
with high level, the great thing about us is that everything's all compacted into
one platform. Like Justin was saying earlier and Joe were saying earlier, they spend
so much money on different tech stack with how level you can do it all under one
roof. So yeah, and that's my little spill. Awesome. Joe,
Alexis, anything you've got before we wrap this up?
No, I don't have anything.
Alexis, anything you got before we wrap it up? Yes, I got one more golden nugget.
Okay. So for you guys that want, that are going to take that,
take that big leap into moving away, you could be moving away from Facebook groups
or moving away from Discord. I know people are concerned about like, what if no one
can find me? We got that figured out for you. I want you to check out dot com.
We have a lot of growing communities. So when you make your next community at high
level, you can make it discoverable, just like with Facebook groups, who's left
-handed? Who wants to teach me about financial literacy? Who wants to teach me how
to be creator for your next 30 -day challenge? So if that ever concerns you, you
can go ahead and just click one checkbox. And we have a lot of resources on how
to create your communities as well. But go ahead and explore go -collab.
as entertainment enterprises, entertainment companies, right? And so,
as you can tell, we're all in on high level. We're currently moving everything over
to it. But what's most important, too, is we want to show you strategy, show you
opportunities like Joe showed you with his 30 -day creator challenge. And as Alexis
showed you with the other snapshots to see where you're at and what you can
implement. So So if high level's not right for you right now or you're using
something else, we want you to have value of you can say, okay, what's my next
step? What's the next thing you can do? And if you're like, yeah, high level's
awesome, it takes all that. Great. Sign up, join those links, get those snapshots
and let's grow together. Just like Joe came on to show today, next month,
we're going to be having one with brand deals. And the brand deal company, they're
coming on, connected with them because of three other jump starters connecting me
with that company. And I love how they started. They started as creators first and
then doing this. And that's what I love about Go High Level, where they're really
here to help all of you as creators to nurture your audience on YouTube and gather
that data so that you can do more. We have the brand deals. We're going to have a
tax consulting come up that, hey, if you're selling between a million to five
million a year in sales, awesome, you might want to talk to them. If you're not,
guess what they're going to do? They're going to give golden nuggets just like
Alexis and Joe gave golden nuggets today as well. So everyone, thank you so much
for jumping on this call. Brittany, Joe, and Alexis as well. Thank you for taking
out time to show all the amazing work that you guys are doing. And everyone, we'll
see you on the next call. Have a good one. Goodbye. Thanks for having us.
Thank you.

PT6

Hey, hey, everybody. Welcome to our channel Jump Start special call today. Just like
last time where we had high level and Joe, our fellow students teach about how to
create a 30 day creator challenge in 90 minutes and get sales and how to bring
value to your viewer off platform. Today we have out loud talent. We've got,
they're coming on, they're going to be giving an incredible presentation today on
what you can do as a creator, depending on where you're at in your journey as a
creator from a small channel, new channel to a big channel, and how to leverage
what you have, your community that you've developed, you've curated, you've taken care
of in this incredible relationship, and how to match that with the right brands and
get the best opportunity for you. And then when you do that, what are some things
you need to be aware of? It's really exciting that way. And it's going to be
really good. So I'm going to be bringing art. He's going to be coming on as a
panelist, then make him a co -host so he can turn on his camera and just have this
incredible, incredible session today. So I hope you guys are really excited about it.
Is there we're going to see the recording afterwards? Yes, 100%. So these recordings
that we do, we put into the channel Jumpstart tool site. So when you go onto the
tool site, you'll see at the very top above section one, above welcome, our creator
tools. So every time we do this, there will be recordings so that you guys have
access to it. So like next month, just before tax season, we're looking at having a
sales tax experts come in. Now, these sales tax experts, they have worked with
massive companies from Dr. Pepper all the way down to small mom and pop stores of
helping them understand and leverage the opportunity that you have to save more of
your money, especially as you're coming into tax season. They're going to be doing
that training as well next month. Then after that in April, we've got lined up a
lawyer who's going to come on and talk to you guys about owning your IP, especially
with the advent of AI and what's happening there of who owns the rights to any AI
digital images, sounds, stuff like that. How do you make sure that your content is
safe and secure from anything that way? So, yes, these calls are always recorded and
they, Sorry, and then they're immediately posted once they're done,
posted onto the tool site so that everybody will have access to this as long as we
got it. So I'm excited about that and it's good stuff. So, uh -huh,
let's see here. Art, good to see you, man. How you doing it too, Justin? I'm doing
good. How are you? Doing excellent. Doing really well. Just excited to have you on
here, excited since Vids Summit, since we met, and with Natalie. Now,
is Natalie jumping on the call today? I believe Natalie is here. I think she's in
attendance. Let me see here. I'm going to, oh, there she is. Cool. I'm going to
bring her on as well. Let's go. Okay, Natalie, just assigned you to become a panel,
so you accept that. Then I can make you a co -host as well.
Hello, everyone. Nice to see you, Justin. Good to see you as well. Well,
awesome. So everyone, I want to introduce you all to Art and Natalie. They are two
incredible individuals that really care about the creator because they are creators.
They came from the creator space before understanding and diving into the brand world
as well. And Natalie, her and I met through mutual friend. I'm trying to remember
which one now, because there was three that we're all talking about you at Vid
Summit. So was it James Dunn? Yes. Okay. Cool.
So yeah. Why don't you walk them through at Vid Summit? What was going on and how
we connected? Most definitely, sure. So I will start off by saying that I have been
with Nano Zebra, formerly Nano Zebra now Out Loud Talent for the past three years.
I came into the space not knowing anything about this world. So it's really
interesting how far my knowledge has expanded since then. I work primarily on the
brand side of things, but I also manage some of my own talent. So back in art
will obviously get into the nitty gritty. But back in 2023, we started the program
called the Gold program. And since then, we have been engaging creators into this
exclusive program and helping them expand their brand relationships by having them on
our roster and connecting them to all different brands across the platforms. And so
from there, though, I met, let's see, I met James Dunn and Hamiltonville Farm and
Pilot Debrief, all great guys and Aaron Ramirez too. I have to call him out because
he's awesome to work with as well at VidSummit and got in contact with Justin, who
has been amazing thus far. But VidSummit was my first time and I went to VidCon
previously. But VidSummit just changed my whole perspective on the creator economy.
And it's amazing how many business people there are out there trying to grow,
you know, themselves as a person, but also their YouTube channel. So it's really
great program. And I'm excited to help you guys learn more about brand deals and
how we can help, you know, moving forward. Awesome. Thank you. And this is what I
love so much. So Natalie then introduced me to art. And one thing about, about
Daryl and I, what you guys have all seen with with the channel jumpster community
is that we're very careful on just putting anybody.
somebody that's gone through has earned their keep as well as a creator and knows
the pain and struggles of companies coming to take advantage of creators because he
was a creator first and foremost. So Art, why don't you go ahead and introduce
yourself to everybody here? Thanks, Justin. Yeah, my name is Arthur McCarthy.
Otherwise known as The Gamer for Mars on YouTube, I created my channel all the way
back in 2009. I was 14 years old. And over the course of, you know, 10 years,
I grew up to about a million subscribers. And in 2019, that's originally when I got
into the advertising agency realm, the other side of the business.
It originated because I was actually at VidCon 2019, and I was talking to a bunch
of other YouTubers there, and we were just kind of complaining about the agencies
that would get YouTube sponsorships and how, you know, the horror stories of them
taking 50 % off the top without telling you and not paying you and you'd have to
hound them for payment and just like pulling all these schemes and dragging you
along and then the brand deal never comes to fruition and they acted like it would.
And we just kept on going on and on and I had done a lot of work in trying to
figure it out for my own channel. And with that basis of understanding as a
YouTuber for a decade, I started up my business, Nano Zebra was called at the time,
with my brother Alex, who had just recently graduated high school, actually. And we
just signed on a couple of my buddies at first, started doing sponsorships for 10
people figuring it out from the ground up, just originally on the creator end, but
now figuring out the other side of the equation. And over the course of, you know,
five years or so, we grew it to a team of 15, including wonderful people such as
Natalie, representing around 120 creators. And most recently, starting on January 1st,
2025, we joined forces with Outlaw Talent, which is now the official name of both
of our companies combined. And the short end of that is that Out Loud Group is a
brand representation company that's been in the space since 2007. So they're one of
the OGs, and they were looking to expand their talent division. And they liked what
we were doing on our side. We did a lot of representation with male focus channels.
They did a lot of representation with female focus channels on the talent side. So
it's kind of a match made in heaven where now we're pretty confident that we could
represent people pretty much anywhere on the spectrum and, you know, actually have,
you know, meaningful contacts to help them go to the next level. And since day one
of me being on the side of the business, I've preached transparency. Just making
sure the creators know how the sausage is made because it's not always a clean cut
thing. I don't try to clean it up for anyone. If you ask me a question about how
things are made, it's not just a sales pitch. I am trying to be my best to be
truthful, because at the end of the day, I'm still a YouTuber first and foremost,
and I want to make sure that I'm serving people well and, you know, communicating
it. So even if they don't end up working with me, they're not getting ripped off
elsewhere. So yeah, that kind of sums it up, I would say. It was a good, you
know, two -minute elevator pitch of my experience in the space. I love it. And
that's what everyone, the last part is what made us smile was he's not trying to
get the sale and make the money. He's trying to make sure he helps creators just
like himself. And that really resonated with us, really with the jump starter way of
creator helping creator. So that's why we felt, hey, you know what? Let's have you
guys come on. Let's have you guys do a training on how creators can better
understand brands and stuff like that and then from there we'll open up to a Q &A
session so that's what we're going to do we're going to kick over to art here and
he's going to do that but beforehand I just want to give us one last thing for
all of those that are new channel jumpstart students just remember in the chat when
you're when you're talking make sure that blue And after the two semicolon is
instead of host and panelist, because only I get to see that, it's set to everyone.
So I see a couple people in the chat have thrown in some highs to people, but
it's at host and panels. So they never got to see those highs. So make sure you
make that change to everyone. Then everyone gets to see what you're saying as well.
So there we go. Well, Art, I'm going to turn it over to you. And then after that,
we're going to open up to a Q &A session where people can raise their hands and
you guys are going to ask your questions. So there we go. Thank you very much. Let
me share a little presentation I created for this. I think we have it right here.
Just let me know if you see it and I could start. Does this look good on your
end, Justin? Looks great. Perfect. So I guess to start off when I was thinking
about what this presentation would be. I didn't want it just to be a bunch of
flowery language and just kind of general stuff that you might already know about
sponsorships. You know, oftentimes a creator of their first thought when they're doing
a brand deal for the first time is how much money am I going to get paid? You
know, and that's kind of where it ends. It's the money equation and what's the
brand I'm working with. Am I excited about the company? And those are two very
important questions to ask. And it's understandable that those are the first two
things you look into. But a portion of this that I like to have everyone zoom in
on is the value of sponsorships. That is really what it's all about. On one hand,
yes, for the creator, the value oftentimes is having a cool experience, maybe getting
some free product, maybe getting paid a decent chunk of money. But also, you have
to look at it on the other hand. What is the brand's value in doing a sponsorship
with the creator? This is a question sometimes we don't think about, but it really
allows you to kind of get into the mindset of them to hopefully help yourself get
more sponsorships as the years go on and you build up more of a following and you
get to a point where people are interested in working with you. And while oftentimes
these two sides of the equation of the value for a brand and value for a creator
are different, other times they kind of come together. And as a person who has been
running an agency and I now listen more and more to the brand side of things and
not just other my other YouTuber buddies of mine. I kind of have a bit of a
better sense of where they come about booking sponsorships. And hopefully with this
presentation, I could share a couple very key points that will help you going
forward if your goal is to get sponsorships as a creator. So moving forward,
this first slide, I kind of went over it already earlier, but to kind of give a
little a more of an in -depth view about myself. I started my channel back in 2009.
I didn't really know anything about YouTube or how to create videos when I was 14
years old. There really wasn't money in it. There weren't really many sponsored
messages back then. I just had an idea of it might be fun to talk about video
games on my channel. But as the years had gone on and I graduated high school, it
was around 20 years old. The channel was at a point where I went from making
hundreds of dollars to thousands of dollars a month. And it was actually a viable
source of employment for myself. And from there, I was making most of my money off
AdSense. But then an event happened about five years into me being a full -time
YouTuber called The Adpocalypse, which kind of just wiped out my revenue on the
AdSense side. Google pulled out a lot of the advertisements because of the advertiser
boycott. Money dropped off. I was left looking for other ways to diversify my
revenue so I could keep this stream of being a YouTuber going. And that's when I
got into the sponsored message realm. How do I get more brand deals for myself? And
it was extremely hard at first. I remember one of the first brand deals I did get
was without Loud Group all the way back in like 2016, I believe, for Audible. And
that was like an amazing amount of money. It was like almost as much as I made
off AdSense in the month to just stop this 162nd promotion in a video. So that was
my origin of trying to find them for myself. And over the course of years, I tried
to figure out more and more about that side of the space. I worked with a lot of
different agencies. Why am I not able to get consistent sponsorships? What do I have
to do to make myself more desirable to brands? And that was a very difficult thing
to accomplish. And a lot of it just came down to the industry had to mature around
me. And that's when I started nano zebra in 2019, COVID hit. And after COVID
happened, a lot of these advertisers that spent money on billboards or radio ads,
you know, they were left not being able to sponsor those things anymore because
people weren't driving in their cars listening to their radio or watching billboards
on the side of the road. And they turned things around. A lot more online
subscriptions were happening. And voila, sponsorships became super hot for creators.
And we were there to ride the first wave of that and accomplish thousands of
sponsored integrations as the years have progressed, bringing us to current day where
we emerged with Out Loud Talent. So kind of a breakdown of what Out Loud Talent
is. We are an agency that represents around 200 creators collectively across a whole
gambit of genres of content with many different demographics of viewers. And what we
focus on is being parent, as I mentioned earlier, but also striving to have direct
contacts with brands and have a deep understanding of the space. A lot of the times
we'll see frustration with some people who they have some representation who ends up
just being more of a glorified email responder. They sit back, let other agencies
come in and pitch, and then they'll just be the middleman that makes it happen.
Whereas with us, we try to get a deeper understanding of what a brand's looking
for, how much they're able to pay, how much could we get out of them? You know,
if they have $100 ,000 a budget to spend.
question, what is a sponsorship? And when I thought about that question while
creating this slide, I came down to the very concise answer when a brand exchanges
money for a promotion on a platform integrated into the content itself. So I know,
as I mentioned earlier, you got the AdSense money you're pulling in. Maybe you got
some affiliate links in the description. Maybe you got a merch store. The sponsorship
is another tier of that. Oftentimes, it involves more of an endorsement from the
product where you're actually putting your face on the brand, and you're more
intermingling with them. So it's a bit more of an intimate thing, and because of
that, it takes a lot more work to get them started. But below are some of the
brands that Out Loud Group is an agency on record for. You know, we've worked a
lot with companies like chomps, the meat stick company that are a little bit higher
protein than slim gyms or the traditional brands in the space, or, you know, a
magic the The Gathering or a NordVPN, you know, just faces that you probably see a
decent amount across the world, depending on what type of content you're watching.
But, yeah, so I would say that the breakdown is Out Loud Group. They represent
brands, Out Loud Talent's a subsidiary that we're a part of that I'm a co -owner
of, and we focus on the talent. And talent is our top priority. And getting these
sponsorships is our bread and butter, as I often will say. So when I try to break
down sponsors,
face out there for as many people as possible for the best price. They either want
eyeballs on the product or they want a direct conversion. So when they're looking
for a channel, they're not necessarily looking for a certain type of channel, but
rather they'll look at numbers on a chart. What are their male -to -female ratios?
What percentage of their viewers are in the United States? What percentage of them
are a certain age range? And from that, they'll make a calculated offer accordingly.
On the other hand, you have brands that are looking for very specific type of
creators that match one -for -one for their type of content. If you're a snowboarding
channel, you're probably going to get reached out to by a snowboard helmet company,
but if you are a channel that talks about video games, that same company will
probably never reach out to you. I think that is what differentiates it. And
depending on the type of channel you have, it depends on where you fall on the
sliding scale. A couple of the examples here, an extremely general type of advertiser
would be ExpressVPN. That's an advertiser we've been working with since 2019. And it
goes across the board with all VPNs that they will pretty much sponsor anything.
Natalie, would you give me a reason why you think VPNs kind of will give any
channel a shot? I think because a VPN is needed throughout no matter where you
live. And, you know, if you are in need of something to help keep yourself safe,
whether it be traveling or, you know, if you're the faceless channel, the commentary
type, it really doesn't matter if even your lifestyle creator, a VPN is always
needed. Absolutely. 100 % agree. And because of that, no matter what type of channel
you are, you've probably gotten an email in your inbox from some VPN at some price
point trying to get an integration on your channel of some sort. And because of
that, they're extremely general. Moving a little bit on to a little less general,
but it's still on that side of things, would be Keeps' hair loss pills. Story about
this and any of the other hair loss pill companies you see selling on the internet
is that in 2017, the generic version of a pill called finasteride became public.
It's the only prescription medication that is FDA approved for hair loss in men.
Because of that, it was a
female -driven channel. They were not going to sponsor a channel where the average
audience was 16 years old because the only people that could use keeps hair lost
pills are people that are male, 18 plus, and are based in the United States of
America. So with those stats, they're general where they'll sponsor pretty much
everything, but they do have to be in those sort of guidelines, or at least a
decent amount of their audience. Moving on a little bit more to the genre -specific
side would be a sponsor that we've only worked with once, which is McDonald's. And
I know you might be thinking, isn't McDonald's is as general as you could get? I
mean, they're all across the world. Everyone eats food. Everyone's had a burger
there, at least once in their life. But when you work with these Fortune 500
companies more and more, you'll discover that whenever they're doing promotions with
YouTubers or with influencers in general, they're usually going after a very specific
audience. They're looking for an aesthetic, a specific type of creator to hone in a
new audience that they're going after. In our case, we were representing a truck
driving channel, and there was a company that was working for McDonald's as an
agency on record, and they wanted to have an initiative to encourage truck drivers
to stop and eat at McDonald's more often. They came in, made an offer for this one
channel. We showed them the rest of our roster, not interested in anything else.
They just want a truck driving channel. That was their one purpose. So you'll see
that quite often where you will see giant brands coming in to spend, but they're
not usually spending across the board. They're usually specifically focusing on getting
more Hispanic people to purchase the product, more swimmers, more truck drivers,
more upper class people, more middle class people. They have a very specific
objective and they're trying to pinpoint creators that match that. And they're not
necessarily looking for a direct conversion one for one where if you spend 10 ,000
have been around since the late 80s, and it's a very niche audience. And because of
that, they're only looking to sponsor other trading card game channels or anything
that's adjacent to that. So if a channel such as myself who doesn't talk about
trading card games, I wanted to be sponsored by them, I'm pretty much out of luck.
They wouldn't be interested in that. They have one goal, which is people that are
in that little niche of a community. So with that going on to the next slide,
this will be a little bit more
Maybe they're not falling in enough of these categories to make themselves appetized.
So the first one would be having an audience of over 50 % U .S.
I'm sure every single one of you has gone into your YouTube dashboard analytics and
saw the amount of viewers in each country. The sweet spot where brands start
salivating most of the time is if your audience is at least 50 % or above in the
United States of America. That's because a lot of these brands, they only sell in
America. or
to the 25 to 34, you know, the 30s, 40s, 50s, that kind of just is dependent on
the brand. But most companies have seen that if you have an audience that is a
bunch of teenagers, they don't have much spending power. They're not really interested
in promoting those channels. Because of that, we have Roblox, YouTubers come to us
looking for brand deals. And even if their metrics are pretty high in terms of
viewership, we say, sorry, there's not much we could do. Most companies say no
Roblox, no That's like a kind of an inside joke where a lot of these companies
will say that over and over again. But as long as you're getting above the 25 age
range and above as your main demographic, you're pretty golden of getting
opportunities. The next one, that's extremely important and probably the easiest one
for anyone to change in their content if they're not currently doing it to get more
sponsorships is showing their face in their YouTube videos. Now, going back to
Natalie, Natalie, can you maybe explain to me why you think showing you're facing
your content is so important to advertisers? I would say that it's just so important
because it really shows that you are interested in the product and that you are
actually using it. You can talk based on, you know, if, you know, for example, like
this Oala water bottle, like I, you can see that I'm using it. I'm touching it.
I'm feeling it. The product exists. And on top of that, the brand loves to see
that you are actually, you know, like it has trust from your audience. So as long
as you are trusting the product, your audience then can trust you as well.
So it's definitely great to be able to show that you are here in the moment and,
you know, try to engage your audience in what you're promoting. Yeah. Honestly, I
wasn't even going there. But actually, I think that that's another good point to
this is having, you know, not just generic B -roll of a person using the Racon
earbuds in a promotion, but rather you're putting them into your own ear, showing
the use case of you and your day -to -day life, rather than just getting some
commercials from the company and slapping it over your voiceover. It's going to lead
to a bit more of an immersive experience for the YouTuber fans to watch and
possibly buy. On top of that, we found that a lot of companies have been burned by
what we call content farm channels. Place that just kind of slop out a lot of
content where it's faceless, there's not really a creator behind it. But sometimes
they get decent views. For those channels, you'll never see a conversion. Every
single channel's been burned where they sponsored a couple of those guys. And you're
lucky if you get a couple sales off of promotion on those accounts. And because of
that, they've seen the correlation one for one where if you show your face, you're
more likely to convert. And even though that might not be fair because there are
faceless channels that have a really good, have a really good relationship with their
audience and they're very personality -based and kind of their gimmick maybe is that
they don't show themselves in the content. Unfortunately, it's an extra hurdle that
you kind of have to jump through when trying to book if you're trying to make an
exception for a person like that and show that they're not just like, you know,
general content. Next up will be a consistent viewership is something that most of
these brands are looking for. I would say all of them, actually. If you have a
channel that's getting 2 ,000 views sometimes and 200 ,000 views other times, it's
going to be a difficult sell, no doubt. Most brands, they're looking for a channel
that gets about the same number of views for every single upload, showing they have
a baseline of the amount of viewers that are coming to watch every single piece of
content. This has two kind of reasons or rationales behind it.
The first one is that it's hard to even put a price on a channel if you don't
know how many views a video is going to get. Do you pay $1 ,000 and then just
take the gamble if it's going to get 2 ,000 views or 200 ,000? Do you have to put
some sort of view guarantee on it to mitigate that risk? And also on top of that,
the second thing to keep in mind is that brands see a higher value on dedicated
subscribers rather than general viewers. Whether it's fair or not, they'll see it as
a channel that gets baseline 2 ,000 views on their least few videos as that's the
dedicated core audience of 2 ,000 people. The rest is just general viewers where if
they have a good title and thumbnail and audience retention on a specific video,
they get on, they get the extra viewership. But those 198 ,000 people,
they don't value the views as much as those core 2 ,000. So if you're able to kind
of lift up your baseline where the lowest viewed video is pretty standard and it's
pretty close to the top end of things and you have a very consistent amount of
viewership, brands are going to be more favorable to sponsoring a channel like that
or giving it a chance. Next, we have brand safety, brand safety, and this one's
probably a given, don't say edgy stuff on your channel if you want sponsorships.
Don't do political hot takes. Don't say controversial statements of any sort.
If that's your thing and you want to keep on doing it, that's what your audience
expects, more power to you, but at the same time, we're not going to be able to
sell you. It becomes increasingly difficult. And on top of that, keep in mind that
even if you don't have a problem doing that stuff now, you might change your mind
at a point later on down the road. And we've experienced working with creators where
at first they were edgy, then they cleaned up their image. But even years later,
when a brand would do a Google search, they'll still see a compilation of the edgy
stuff they said years past, and they'll still deem a brand unsafe. So because of
that, even if you have a channel that has the perfect demographics, perfect genre
that fits what the brand is going for, if they think that they might get backlash
because of it or it doesn't fit their image that they're going for, they're going
to say, no, sorry, we have to pass. There's nothing we could do. Finally, history
of sponsorship renewals would be the newest thing I would add to a list like this,
and this might not have even been there two years ago. What we've found more
recently is a lot of brands are paying for applications on their end that are going
to give them indicators on what creators are going to convert for their company. One
of the biggest things that they'll factor in is if other brands have converted for
them and have come back for renewal offers. So if you are a channel that did a
Manscape sponsorship and they came back and sponsored 10 more videos, another brand
over here that has a similar audience or is looking for similar audiences Manscaped.
They might see that as a really good sign and want to book you because you work
for Manscaped. that means it's going to work for us. Meanwhile, if you're an account
that has done one manscaped, one keeps, one this, one that, one, this, when that.
And you never get a renewal offer. No brand ever comes back for seconds because
they didn't get any sort of conversion on the first advertisement they did with you.
Then at that point, a lot of brands are going to be afraid. And they're going to
say, I don't know, this channel doesn't seem to really sell anything, not interested.
This program told me not to. So I would really encourage people to make their best
effort to make a meaningful play, to advertise a brand as much as possible, get
people to click that link in the description down below to purchase the product, and
then also go back and try to be a bit more aggressive of getting renewal offers
coming back, doing the same brands over and over again. It will yield more results
in times to come, and there's been occasions even for my account where I'll take a
discounted rate on a renewal offer just so I could say that I did the renewal, so
the brand will come, other brands will come in and say like, oh, yeah, we saw you.
You ran for this brand five times. Even though the next three times after the first
one, I took a bit of a discount on it to make sure that that happens so I could
have that look for my account. But with these in mind, before we move on, I just
want to point out that even though this is optimal, just because you don't fit
every single one of these, it doesn't mean you can't get a fruitful amount of
sponsorships for your channel. Don't believe that. There's plenty of channels that
don't fit all this stuff, but they convert for brands and they do perfectly well.
These are just kind of guidelines where if you are looking for things to probably
improve upon, that will get you more results in terms of sponsored message offers,
this is where to start. Next up is how to book a successful brand deal.
As I mentioned earlier in the call. Oftentimes, we'll just think of it as, you
know, here's the brand I like you, pay me this amount of money, I'll promote your
product on my channel. But there's a lot more nuance to that, and I want to bring
out a few key points of things that you should get cemented in stone before getting
a contract made up and signed with a company. Because even though it might seem
good on the surface, if you didn't keep this stuff in mind, there might be a lot
of problems later on. So we'll be on the look at for this stuff. First and
foremost, usage rights. Are they going to be asking for them? Natalie, can you maybe
explain a little bit about what usage rights are to someone who hasn't done a
sponsorship before? Of course, yeah. So usage is basically the brand wanting to take
your integration and either putting it on their platform or taking it and putting it
on other multiple platforms across. And so there's two different types. There's
organic and paid. Organic we typically don't charge. It's typically,
you know, the most is 30 days. And then for paid, it's when they want to take it
and, like I said, put it on other types of platforms. And, you know,
some brands will sneak in the contract as well and have It turned into perpetual
usage and therefore they'll want to take it and use it forever,
which is definitely a no -go on our side of things. Your content is important and
you need to definitely keep it close to the best when brands are like, oh, wow,
I really want to use this all over the place. You need to put your foot down and
charge extra for that. We definitely review our contracts and take it as serious as
possible just because they can take it and run with it. And so usage is,
you know, something that you want to look out for for sure. Yeah, absolutely. The
last thing you want is let's say you're selling yourself for $1 ,000 for sponsored
message and then they get in perpetuity usage for paid promotions.
And then you blow up and at some point you're charging $50 ,000 for a sponsorship
because you're the next big thing. Meanwhile, this brand is still just running your
promotion from three years ago, you know, all the time across social media and
there's nothing you can do about it. I don't know if I've seen in a case that
it's that extreme, but it does happen from time to time where, you know, they, they
didn't look too closely at the fine prints and now they're stuck fighting with a
brand together, taken down. So, yeah, Keep that in mind. That's probably one of the
most important ones.
Bullet point number two here would be category exclusivity. What this would usually
entail is what the advertisers is asking in terms of you being exclusive to not
promoting any other brand in their same category. So going back to ExpressVPN,
usually they'll put into the contract for a certain period of time you can't work
with another VPN company. And I think that that's very reasonable. It would look
kind of strange if you vouch for two different companies in the same exact niche
back to back. So them having something like that maybe for 30 or 60 days makes a
lot of sense. But what if they're a bit more vague where they say for the next
year you can't work with any other technology -based company? Well, what the heck
does that mean? That could be any sort of company in the space that's doing YouTube
or promotions or at least most of them. So we've seen some vague terms like that
where it could
be 30 seconds, 60 seconds, 90 seconds, are they going to try to make it two
minutes long? We've seen brands try to pull that where they gave such a long
talking point list that it's going to be an insanely extended promotion that it just
does not fit the content it's supposed to be on. On top of that, where does it
lay in the video? Is it supposed to be in the first two minutes of the video?
Does it have to be in the first 50 % of the video? Does the entire ad have to be
in the first 50 % of the video or does it just have to start in the first 50 %
of the video. I've had brands nitpick where it started in the first 50 % of it,
but it went into the 53 % mark of the video, and then they were like complaining
and wanted me to push it forward. So getting that stuff cleared up, again, that's a
big help to make your process a lot more seamless. Number four, any guarantees on
the content. This would usually come in the form of a view guarantee of some sort.
So especially if a channel is a little bit more up and down or of the viewership
of their channel or they're promising they're going to put it on a banger video
that's going to get a crazy amount of views, the brand might ask for a view
guarantee to back up their claim. So let's say they put a 100 ,000 view guarantee
on a channel. That being said, what would happen if you didn't hit that view
guarantee. Well, that should probably be put in the contract as well. Sometimes
they'll want a complete make good if you get 90 % there and you have to put the
brand deal on a brand new video from scratch just because you were so close to
making it. Whereas other times, I think the more reasonable route would be a pro
rating, which means if you got 90 % to your view guarantee, you get paid 90 % of
the money and so on and so forth. But again, very channel dependent. Some people
would rather just to make good because they're producing daily content and it
wouldn't matter to just slap it on another video very quickly. But other channels
where they only post once a month, once a month, that could be a huge pain in the
neck if they had to deal with, a make good on a brand new piece of content. Then
the next up on this list, and this is one that I think Natalie actually brought up
and had me include were the payment terms. And this is a very important one as
well. When does the brand pay you? Do they pay you up front before the ad goes
live? Do they pay you in 30 days? Do they pay you in 60 days? Which is kind of
the standard we see oftentimes, which is after the brand deal goes live, they have
60 days to give you the money. That should be factored in here because if they
don't give you a term, then what's stopping them from paying you six months down
the road. So definitely keep that in mind. And with that point, in terms of getting
paid, Trust is another big element. So I have the question that you should ask
yourself every single time you're doing a sponsorship. Do I believe this sponsorship
will go smoothly and the brand will pay? This is a big one because if a brand,
you've never heard of them before, they don't have a brick and mortar location, that
they're based in some other country where there's no extradition laws. You don't know
any other YouTubers that have worked with them before. You know, could you trust
this company? Maybe you should ask some more questions. Are they going to pay you
up front if you don't have faith that they're going to pay you after the fact? I
would say most of the time a creator gets screwed on payment. It's usually because
they're working with some shady business that just did not have an actual
trustworthiness to it. And they probably should have been more skeptical before
getting into the brand deal, which is something that will always communicate with our
creators at outlawed talent, which is, hey, this brand came to us, offered you a
promotion, offered you a full rate, but we've never worked with them before. We've
never heard of them before, and they're refusing to pay up front. Oftentimes, we'll
usually advise people to say no and just move on and not do that because it's
probably not going to be worth the headache. At the end of the day, I would say
that you just have to treat the sponsorships like the business it is. This is a
transaction between a company and your and just you might get caught up in,
oh, they're paying me a bunch of money to promote a cool thing. But if you're not
thinking about that stuff, it could become more of a headache than it's worth. So
this kind of brings us to more of the conclusion of this presentation. I would say
that a lot of this covers the main points to look out for in terms of the value
of a sponsorship from either side of the perspective, whether you're the brand or
the creator. You really just have to be on the lookout for what can I do to
optimize my channel to make myself more appetized for these brands. And also at the
same time, when the brands come to you, look out for yourself to make sure that
nothing happens that's going to make it such a pain in the neck to deal with where
you're regretting even getting into a contract with a company in the first place.
But on top of this, there's some other questions here that I might pose. I know
we're going to a Q &A after this so we could kind of go more in depth. But with
these ones, I think they're a bit more channel specific. What should I charge for a
brand deal? What is the value I put on my time? You know, if a brand deal I'm
selling for $1 ,000 and I put a, you know, $200 value on each hour of my time, is
it really worth it for me to be doing it myself or should I sub it out to
someone else? Which brings to the other question, should I join an agency to manage
my sponsorships? I could say as a person who runs an agency, I've seen people
across the board on every side of the equation. There's people that have run their
brand deals in -house and have had a lot of success. I've seen other people that
have tried to do it themselves and it became a huge nightmare. They would have been
better off subbing it out to someone who knew what they were doing. On the other
hand, I've seen people that have worked with agencies that just became terrible that
the agent didn't do the job that they were supposed to. The company dropped the
ball And they just lost out on a ton of money. But then on the other hand,
there's a lot of people at a lot of competent agencies out there that could just
sub out the work of doing the sponsored messages for their channel, pay a flat
commission, and they take care of that for them. And it's a very experienced team
so they don't have to build out that team in -house to do the job for them. But
yeah, with that, that kind of sums it up. Feel free to ask any questions. And me
and Natalie are available for a personal call at any point if anyone wants to reach
out. But at the same time, we're also free right now to do some Q &A while we
have the rest of this meeting here. Awesome. Art, first off, I just want to say
thank you for going through that presentation and bringing all the so much value to
the jump starter community. So what we'll do is I know there's a couple of
questions here right now. What I'd love to do is bring you on. So go ahead and
raise your hand and then we'll go person by person. The first person,
though, that asked a great question, every day, Chris, I'm going to go ahead and
unmute you. And then we'll just go in order of the I see what the hands raised.
Hello? Hello. Hello, Chris. Thanks so much. I really love the talk.
I just had a quick question. So What do you do when companies say they'll pay
based on market CPM rates and how many views your last videos had?
Because I've had a lot of companies say, oh, like, I know you charge this much,
but based on your views and the CPM rates, we can only offer like this much. Sure.
So CPM is kind of a vague term when it comes to sponsorships. And I know a lot
of people get scared by it. Whenever me and Natalie behind the scenes would be
discussing CPMs, It's more of a ballpark where we'll look at what your average video
gets in the last 30 days if you get consistent viewership and then do it by
multiple that's similar to other creators in your genre. So, you know,
for my channel, like, you know, let's say, not my channel, let's keep the numbers
really rounded. If you have a true crime channel, get around maybe a $25 CPM,
you're averaging 100 ,000 views per video. That puts few at a sale point of $2 ,500.
But it's across the board where we have some creators that they don't convert very
well where you might only be getting a, you know, a $10, $15 CPM based off of
your viewership. But then you have other lifestyle channels that could get $100 CPM
based off of their viewership. It's really just, it depends on the account and,
you know, very specifically what the brand is going for. And sometimes brands price
them out of certain verticals if the content they're going after is just too
expensive for what they're willing to pay in terms of a CPM. Awesome. Thank you.
Next up, Heather from Awesome Over 50.
Hello. And thank you so much for doing this. Art and Natalie and Justin,
thank you so Um, my question is, I think we're ticking all the boxes. We have,
um, over 100 ,000 subscribers. Um, however, we,
um, also work with Amazon as an affiliate. And we are actually influencers for that.
So we also have a storefront. Um, my question is a lot of women that we deal with
are over 50, over 60. They love love their makeup. If we were to get,
let's say, a clinic eye shadow, do we have to remove all the eyeshadows in our
storefront for Amazon? I mean, Natalie, you want to jump in and maybe kind of give
a viewpoint on that? I would check your exclusivity and, you know,
see what is in the contract. I can't say that we could definitely make a judgment
call on that. But I think it definitely, you know, depends on exclusivity and seeing
if it's allowed with the other companies. I would agree with that. I think it just
depends on the contract and it goes back to that one slide. Make sure it says, if
it says something specifically of like you cannot promote anywhere, any other sort of
eye shadow, you probably want to be careful on that. But also you want to factor
in how much money they're offering if it's worth your time to like go and rid your
other platforms of any notice of any other brand that might be competing against
theirs um you know i would say like another instance of this we would see sometimes
like a gray area would be a person as an ongoing promotion where they they wear a
t -shirt for an energy drink every single video does that go against the other brand
that's on the channel even if it's not like an energy drink possibly but we find
that most brands are pretty reasonable, whereas an ongoing sponsorship, something's
just sitting in the background. They're not going to be busting your chops as long
as you're not doing like a built -in 60 -second promotion for that brand as well. I
could be doing the eye shadow and just using the Klinique eye shadow and just
making sure that that's the only link for the eye shadow in there. But yeah,
you know, just knowing that I have the storefront, I'm not going to get rid of
every bit of makeup that I have, right? Yeah, that would sound unreasonable,
especially if that's a big part of your marketing strategy. It is. If you really,
if you really want to be careful, you could ask them, of course, bringing it up
sometimes yields an issue in and of itself where they wouldn't even think about it
otherwise. So that's kind of a risk you kind of have to decide. If you want to
just like let it slide, it's on a different page with, you know, the affiliate link
in the background, and you're just keeping it off of that video with the promotion
for their eye shadow or do you want to get out ahead of it and say hey listen
like I have this affiliate link with like some products on it there's a competing
one to yours is this going to be a problem and let them know and they could say
yes or no but again you bring that up it's going to yield it's good it might
bring up a question that they would have never had in the first place so it's a I
think being transparent is the best thing right absolutely I think if you want to
rid any sort of chance of problems, that would be the best route. Thank you so
much. You're welcome. Awesome. Okay, Mary Allison, you're up. Then, Ryan,
you are on deck.
Hello. Hello. Okay, cool. It popped up that I was,
like, muted, so I wasn't sure if you could hear me. Okay, anyway, my question is
about, like, so we've considered working with an agency before,
but that's why I wanted to join this call to see, like, kind of what y 'all are
about and everything and just different agencies, I guess, in general and, like, how
they can help. So my biggest question, though, is, like, okay, so say you have a
creator who has, like, a million subscribers and averages like a million views per
video versus a creator who has like 10 million subscribers and averages like 10 to
20 million views per video um do you like prioritize that bigger creator because
they're bigger and so you give them all the brand deals versus like the smaller
creator does that make Or, like, how does it work? Like, how do you allocate the
different brand deals to the different creators? Like, do you prioritize it by the
amount of views or what? I would say that, of course, there's going to be a little
extra emphasis on a creator that we're making, like, you know, a significantly larger
portion of money from. I think that's any business. You know, if you're a creator,
you're going to prioritize a series on your channel that gets more views than
another series. I think that just comes with being in a capitalist society. But I
would say at Nano Zebra, we have our gold program, which we strive to have a very
general base level of standard of a white glove service. We provide everyone. And
oftentimes it doesn't always come down to what channel we're selling for the most
money. We have channels that we sell for $1 ,500 a brand deal. And we love them.
They're easy to work with. They get a bunch of interest from advertisers. You know,
they're getting a bunch of attention. We're working with them every single day.
Meanwhile, we'll have some other channels that we might be booking for 10 times as
much money, but they're a harder sell. You know, the more money that you charge for
a brand deal, less brands are able to afford to spend that on a single promotion.
You know, Mr. Beast has talked about this where he'll blow out a company's entire
budget with one promotion on his channel. So it's a different caliber. It makes it
a lot more difficult. I would say that we prioritize people that are good partners
that we like working with that are able to get back to us, respond on time, get
the brand deals out when they're supposed to. You know, do everything to provide
their side of the bargain and we'll make sure that we do the other side. And the
brand deals come in based off of, you know, all the things we listed on that other
side slide previously you know what are your demographics are converting for brands
and if you are converting for those brands we'll have no problem filling you up
whether you're a small channel or whether you're a massive channel okay cool that's
helpful and then also like a side question um i so i've had a few brand deals but
um i heard uh you talking and saw in the chat that um you you can ask to be
paid like up front or like for like half of the payment up front um i've always
ever just been paid like 30 to 90 days after posting and so i didn't know i
didn't even realize that i guess you could negotiate on like when you're paid but
can you i guess i would say that everything in life's negotiable to some extent um
it's going to get you priced out, maybe not priced out, that's not right word.
You're definitely going to be out of the running for certain companies because that's
not how they do things. If they really want you, they'll figure out a way to make
it happen. But at the same time, if they are working with 10 creators, nine of
them are willing to take payment after the fact, and you're the only one asking for
it up front, then, you know, they're probably going to pass or there's a good
chance of that. So if that's something you're hard set on, We definitely have ways
of paying up front. We have even some solutions now where there's companies that
will offer insurance to us, where they'll pay up front to a creator, day of they
release the brand deal, and they'll take, like, I believe it's a 3 % commission to,
like, provide you the money immediately, and then they have to collect the money
after the fact from the brand. So there's companies making, like, policies specific
to that for companies in this space. So if you really need the money immediately,
we have ways of doing it. It will limit the amount of possibilities you have. But
on the other hand, we do just suggest when a company looks ultra shady. It's
probably for the best if they say no. And like you don't do it. It's better to
take that risk of, hey, you lost out on $5 ,000 here if you didn't think there was
a good chance they were going to pay you anyway. Right. Okay. That makes sense
because like the, I was always fine with being paid after the fact because that was
pretty standard. I just didn't realize that I guess you could do that. So I'll just
keep it the way that it has been then for me, honestly. Definitely. Yeah. But if
you want to chat more about it, we could kind of provide you a list of brands we
think we could offer that service for. There's companies that will do it. Out Loud
Group has in the past provided that service. It just comes at usually an extra cost
okay cool well thank you no problem okay so we've got let me see here two four we
got five more people and seven more minutes so there are people from out loud
talent in the chat so if you got questions they'll be responding as well but ryan
you're up then kiple hi
everyone um thank you so much for taking that time to do this i'll try to make
mine quick so i'm a um like men's fashion lifestyle um channel influencer and so um
i'm like kind of more of a smaller channel right now i'm at like 3 .1 k
subscribers but i've been starting to get overwhelmed with like um how many brands
and like deals i've been getting offered lately so um like one for example example
is a pretty big shoe brand I work with where I've started to do like sponsors with
them every month and then what they've been doing is starting to take like I've
been doing ads for them as well they've been using like across like all their
platforms like Facebook Instagram and stuff like that so I more so had a question
on the usage rights aspect of it Because I'm not really sure with how this works.
It's been kind of getting overwhelming with, like, just trying to negotiate it all
because I'm kind of doing it by myself right now. So far as usage rights, is it
like,
how does that work exactly? So is it that you're eligible to get paid or
renegotiate each time an ads ran on a platform? Or how does that go about exactly
if you could elaborate absolutely i think that'll you might be a good person to
answer that question yeah of course um so what can you name the brand that you're
working with again um amber did okay cool yeah i would definitely um obviously like
refer to the contract and all but as far as like those rights go um it's important
to review all of that and to see, like, what other competitors there are.
Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Yeah, of course.
Awesome. Kipley, you're up. Then Malcolm.
Okay. Hi. Thank you so much. I'm going to jump right into it. My channel features
animated adventures for kids four to seven years old. And I'm just, I'm hearing all
of this. And I'm wondering, is there any kind of brand deal that might be possible
for a channel?
It's so specific, though, that any of the general advertisers on YouTube, you know,
even the VPNs, they're not going to, you know, be interested. Have you gotten any
inbound requests for many brands that were interested in sponsoring you yet? Nothing
that I feel is legitimate. It seems like a lot of scams and,
you know, nothing that I have felt confident about.
And Like, like, what does that look like? Is it an announcement at the beginning?
Because I don't appear in the videos. So, like, what kind of, like, what does it
look like if there were a toy company that were interested? I know that there's,
oh, go ahead, Justin. Yeah. So with yours, Kipley, when it comes to animation and
kids content, the major thing that you have is looking at what are brands in the
kid space wanting to do because they cannot Not.
kids content where they will do videos for about six month,
maybe even to a year where they'll have, they're having a video once a month and
having that product implemented throughout the entire video. So for instance,
a channel that we've worked with, they work very closely with Nerf. And so they'll
have a video once a month where they go on a challenge or a hunt and they use
the Nerf guns throughout that video to get to the final moment.
So just as Art was saying, oh, if you had certain earphones that are just naturally
branded into your content, they love that. In the kid space, that's huge.
So what you want to do is reach out to companies, show them examples of what
you've done, or ideas that you have with your animation channel of how you can
implement their product directly and seamlessly into the animation and showing,
hey, this is how you play with the toy. So having kids see, oh, this is how you
play the toy, this is how you have fun, and then they're more likely to connect
with you on, on that one. Okay, so is it like, like I'm doing it,
would I do a couple of them sort of on spec? Like, would I specifically say, oh,
we're going to use these Nerf guns in this adventure that we go on? Says what toy
company is doing. They're always releasing new toys, right? And it's like, oh, my
gosh, we just got, like, in yours, you get to a certain stage and weapon upgrade,
and what's the weapon upgrade? And you mention, it's the Nerf 20 ,500 bagillion
shooter XP. Awesome. I love this. And then you go. So.
Okay. Okay. Excellent. Awesome. We've got 60 seconds. We'll go 120 seconds.
We got Malcolm and Cole. So Malcolm, you are up.
Oh, okay. There we go. I'll be super quick. We are a shorts crater, but we're
planning our first long form very soon. How would we be able to reach out to
brands to pitch them for a sponsorship in terms of long form?
And sorry, second question is, like, we're currently at 34K subscribers and we're
like honing down on our branding and everything. How would be able to sign up with
an agency with 34 ,000 subscribers. I guess answering your first question,
I would release a couple of long -form videos, figure out what your format is,
format is what kind of viewership you're getting, and then going from there. Out of
curiosity, what kind of content do you make? Entertainment content, but specifically,
yeah, yeah, go on. Oh, go, go, so more specifically, what's the need? Oh, more
specifically, it's maximizing getting free items.
So for example, we're building right now like a six foot Costco bucket and then
we're doing something similar to like ARAX video where it's like it's a McDonald's
soda drink but we created a whole machine so it sucks up the drink and puts it in
a four liter jug. So it's like, yeah, we're maximizing how much free stuff we can
get, but like in an overtly, absurdly big way. I like the idea. I like the
gimmick. I would Say that probably getting like, at least you're bottoming out of
35, 40 ,000 views per upload of long form content, and that will make you more
appetized to brands where you're at a point where you could sell yourself. Because
you have to think of it. If you're selling something for $500 for a sponsorship,
you have negotiations, contracts, invoicing, you know, review of the brand deal. You
have to make sure that you're making enough money for it to be worth your time.
Otherwise, I would suggest people just keep on growing. So on that front, I would
say that just start making those, do the best you can, get your, get your views
consistent on that. Then feel free to have a chat with me. I could even give you
some tips of what to do, kind of transitioning. But on the other hand, with the
subscriber amount, I don't think it really matters. And on top of that,
unfortunately, right now brands aren't looking to sponsor YouTube shorts. It's just
not something that they're appetized in. We've tried. It's just, it's not, we've had
channels come to us. It's not a thing yet. Hopefully that changes. But yeah, I
would say that moving over to long form smart, if you're looking for sponsorships,
but it's just a matter of, you know, getting the cadence of the viewership and the
audience of that longer content. And then, you know, you could start those
discussions. Okay. Thank you. How would I be able to reach out to you to you guys?
Like, I just message like, oh, just message you on Art at Out Loud Town.
Yeah, feel free to email me, and I believe Justin could provide something as well
if you reach out to him on the because I did fill out your form, but thank you
so awesome. Cool. Yeah, everyone, there will be a link in the replay with how to
connect with them as well. So awesome. And it looks like the last one lowered their
hand. So Art, Natalie, I want to thank you guys so much. Oh,
no, they threw their hand back up we're going to throw this last question and then
we'll wrap it up so cole cruise you are up
we'll see hey guys can you hear me we could hear you sorry i don't know what
happened there we're using starlink um but uh hey so quick question i really
appreciate you both being on here uh we are a travel channel we're averaging a
little over 350 ,000 views a month right now. I actually am so happy to see that
you had chomps on your presentation because we have a video that is very specific
to where we think the chomps would be a perfect fit. We reached out to them
directly. They said, oh, we like this pitch. Can you please fill out this form?
I went to go fill out the form, and all it said in there in the form was
Instagram and TikTok. We are not focused on Instagram and TikTok. I responded back
to my contact there and it fell flat. I did fill out the form.
But basically, I guess my question is, how can we as YouTubers compete with the
TikTokers out there and, you know, specifically look at brand? I think for Choms.
Whenever we have a good fit. So you cut out for a second there, but I think for
Choms particular Outlawed group is the agency on record for YouTube. So that's
probably why there was a separation. They sent you to the wrong person. If you
reach out to us after this, we could send that over to the right person at bare
minimum, maybe talk to you about doing some other things. In terms of competing
against TikTok and Instagram, I would say that for Instagram, it's a lot more
lifestyle focused of a platform. So it's easier to get sponsorships any day of the
week there, especially if you have a large fan base on there. At the same time, I
think YouTube is the best because you're getting a very consistent audience. People
know who you are. They're subscribing to you. They're getting recommended your
content. It's not as passive of a watch because they're watching you for longer
videos, not just like little 60 -second clips. And because of that, I think more and
more brands are going to come into the space and start representing or start
sponsoring YouTubers in more full ways. It's just been a process. I've seen it
improve over the past five years and hopefully over the next five years from this
point onward, it's going to get even better. But yeah, for Choms in particular,
reach out. We could get that passed along. Awesome. Appreciate it. I do want to
jump on a call with you guys because I do have more. I know we're out of time,
but I do have a lot more questions. So that would be great. Absolutely. Feel free
to fill out the form. Email me. I'm available. We could just schedule something for
next week.
Perfect. So on that one, again, Art, Natalie, thank you so much for your time.
And jump starters, thank you for jumping on. And we'll see you guys all on the
next call. Have a good one. Bye -bye. Thank you. Bye.

PT7

Hit record. All you, Dale? We are here. So, guys, really excited for today.
There's a lot to discuss. And ultimately, a lot of this you already know. And the
important thing is we want to be able to put a path and a trajectory for you and
your business. And so our whole goal is to have you really understand what you need
to do based on some information I need to give you. And then you are the one
that's going to be making the decisions. We're not making it for you. That's
something you need to do. But I want to go back in time a little bit and talk
about YouTube. And I want to, I want to break it into, Let's see.
I thought I had, hold on one second here, I thought I had it close by me.
Let's see here. Okay, we got a book. Okay, so I wrote a book called The YouTube
Formula and ultimately it's in Thai, it's in Spanish now,
French,
it's in Portuguese, it's in Arabic, you know,
it's going all over the world, and it's basically it's going to get a new audience.
Now, in the book, Chapter 1 was really, really, really important for me.
It was like, how do we set the tone of what we're all about? She's like,
okay, here we go. And for me, I wanted to create a book that kind withstand,
uh, changes on YouTube. And I figure out, if you understand the history and the
platform of YouTube, that's what, uh, part one of the book is, you'll understand
kind of what's in the DNA of YouTube. And also you'll understand the tendencies,
uh, that YouTube tends to do. And so you'll, you'll be through their history, you'll
understand their process. And when you understand their process. You'll understand some
challenges. And sometimes it's not always, it's not always right. Like what they're
saying is not always right. And it's not always perfect. Okay. And so when YouTube
started, it started as a dating service website. They wanted to be like the next E
-Harmony or whatever. There's a lot of money in romance. And so for them, they're
like, hey, young college students that were a little horny and decided they wanted
to get the hookup you know and so they wanted to create a a platform where people
could put videos up and just it would just kind of be like this video resumes that
people could watch um and then you would just kind of go from there so that was
uh on pretty much valentine's day 2005 so that's when it launched and then come may
of 2005 they realized that no one was actually uploading videos um they were they're
paying $20 back then in 2005 for a woman in the San Francisco.
Cats, snowboarding adventures, skateboarding adventures, going to the beach. And they
even noticed some pirated content that was there. It's like, okay, this is great.
And that's where the DNA of the YouTube ecosystem was launched,
which was they analyzed and they actually leaned into the opportunity. Okay,
so they analyzed and leaned into the opportunity. So they basically said, we're not
a dating service anymore. We're going to literally let people just broadcast.
put a plan we want to execute on the plan we want to analyze what work what
didn't work and we don't adjust the plan right and that's how we get better now
the next big moment um in youtube's history was when chad hurley who is the CEO of
youtube this is after they got by bought by google for 1 .65 billion dollars he was
drunk this is no lie He was drunk, got on stage,
and says, oh, yeah, we're going, you know, our new advertising program, we're going
to start to share the money with creators.
And all the employees at YouTube were like, their jaws dropped. It's the first time
they hear that. And then he gets off stage and says, okay, yep, this is, this is
great. You're going to do it. Get it done. And they just walked off. And lo and
behold, that's where the partner program was created. Now, when YouTube does anything,
they say, this is a great idea. What we want to do is get a sample size of
creators that can help us prove it out. The first channel that was actually
monetized, you might be shocked with this, was Shaytarts. It's like they were in the
first group of 10 channels, and they actually made money from the YouTube partner
program. Now, here's an interesting fact. The person that ran the YouTube partner
program was running Edwards, so they were already doing it before for websites. So
like, oh, can you translate here? And that was Susan, and Susan was the former,
is now the former CEO of YouTube. So that she was the pioneer of that. Like, that
was her big contribution is everything from there. I know that a lot of people
didn't like Susan, but Susan brought a lot of creators money because she was
championing this. And also she was the home of where Google was actually birth to
is in her garage. And so that's kind of where it all comes together in this fact.
And so they always do their little sample size and then they start to extend the
sample size, and they start to extend the sample size, and then they make an
announcement, hey, we're going to roll this out to everyone, and then it's going to
take a couple years to have it roll out to everyone. Okay.
That has been the actual DNA of YouTube,
and it has not changed, is they'll get an idea, or they see a direction they're
going to go, they're going to put a plan together, they will do a beta group, and
then if it proves out that the data's there, then they're going to they're going to
increase it.
at some creators that are already doing this. At that time, they were looking at
very specific creators that had multiple YouTube channels. Those that are in my inner
circle and those that went to Mexico in my inner circle meeting, you were able to
see this strategy and plan that we did for Mr. Bees to actually go and be in all
those different areas. And so he was like literally on the number one, you know,
I would say the number one person that they wanted to do is to get to have them
included in a multi -track audio on a channel. Now, this is where you need to
understand where YouTube's at, okay? They believe that because there is a vast
majority of views coming outside of the United States, they need to globalize
YouTube. And YouTube's not as dominant in all the parts of the world. In fact,
YouTube has initiatives to go pay for creators. They pay them like two or three
years just to create content, just so that it will exist in their own language. And
they've been doing that for years. And I'm like, dude, you need to talk about that
more because, you know, you've literally established those ecosystems and help people,
like, transition into becoming creators and helping them along the way. And so
YouTube's been doing this, and now they see the opportunity, which is, if they're
going to increase their views, they need to get it in more, this content in more
languages, because there is a creator shortage all around the world,
okay? There's a creator shortage all around the world. Not everyone's doing it like
it is in the U .S. or the U .K. or Brazil or whatever. And in fact, Brazil,
their adoption rate is it so fast. Like when I went down there, it was like six
years ago, seven years ago, they were just trying to explain what YouTube is. They
said,
YouTube, or sorry, Netflix is to YouTube, and that's how they said it,
as Uber is to taxis. And I'm like, that doesn't make any sense. But that was kind
of their messaging and so someone and it has taken off quite a bit. Now, the whole
thing that we're talking about here is what YouTube's perspective is doing. So
they're saying, hey, we have all this content. If we just actually put their
languages in it, let's get it out to the world. Now, their end goal would be is
to have new video files that they're able to upload that based on your location,
based on your language preferences, it would switch the video file and then that
way, you know, it has all context, not just the audio, it's not just the dub.
Like, you'll have those video elements. Now, that being said, there's some really,
really big hurdles that you actually have to endure because what happens is YouTube
realizes there's people trying to hack the system and they can switch out things and
we don't want them to do that. And so they're really, really apt not to do that
at this time. And so they're like doing a toe in the water to go from there. The
toe in the water is let's just do dubs. Let's go ahead and integrate it. And then
two, they bought some technology companies that will be doing dubbing, but they're
not very good. There's a lot of people that's been doing it and they're like going
outsource. It's not very good. But they're trying to make it so that it's just kind
of a standard within YouTube. Now, them doing it, they want to control because once
they do the dub, now you can't use that dub anywhere else besides YouTube. They
want to be able to protect that. And then also, that's kind of the direction
they're wanting to go. Because as it is more localized, they're actually getting more
views. And it's going to be something that is, it's almost like the gold rush,
you know, back in the day. There's so many different people that were going to find
their gold or whatever. And really, the people that have the gold is the people
that already have their gold mines. And you guys, you have channels, you have a
library, it's in one language, you have the gold mine, and that gold mine is the
opportunity here to maximize it and to multiply it.
And so that right there is the most fun aspect, the most fun aspect of where we're
at today. All of you have signed up for Ditto Dub, and you all are trying to
figure out what to do. Now, some of you are already down the road aways, and some
of you all are doing it, you know, this is going to be a huge opportunity. For
us, you are the first in the line. There's no one else is doing us.
You guys are all jump starters. That's how you came through the process. And we're
going to be opening it up tomorrow for more people. I'm doing a live stream
tomorrow. But you're going to be ahead of the game. Okay? You are going to be
ahead of the game. Now, the difference is you're going to have my own personal
connection. And I'm going to answer these questions to you because I want to see
you succeed. And in fact, a lot of you are succeeding now. Okay. So back to the
analogy. Whenever YouTube introduces something, we always need to be skeptical to use
use it. If they say, hey, we have this new feature, we always need to be
skeptical, use it. If they say, hey, we can do this. You always need to be
skeptical. Why? Because most of the employees at YouTube are only going to promote
what YouTube's agendas are, not necessarily what's best for the viewer.
That being said, I was a part of the first beta for this audio track and honestly
it's it's not it's not what other challenges are is happening in the audio track
now the video track changes it is it is so difficult they want to do it but it's
going to be years before it's even open you know open at all okay so for us the
The question is, and this is what all the questions that you have, and I want you
to put this in the chat, is do you want to put it on your main channel, or do
you want to start a language -specific channel? So if that's your question, say,
that's me, that's my question, that's what we need to figure out, what do we need
to do, and that's what we're going to discuss, because there isn't an overall answer
for everyone. It's a very individual question that you have to answer yourself.
And even if you have the feature doesn't mean that you should do it, by no means
that you should do it. It should be, can we do it and what it does actually look
like? And then, and then two, what are the ramifications of? Okay. And so for me,
this is not a call that I'm going to say you're going to do, okay? You're not
going to get that for me. I don't care who you are. I don't care if you're in my
inner circle. You just need all the information, and I'm going to give you all the
information, and then you're going to have to make that choice. And the reason why
is I don't want to deal with the ramifications if you do it wrong or anything like
that. What I want to do is help you succeed. And so it needs to be your
information, and you need to lean into the pros and cons of it. Okay.
So here's the thing right now, when someone actually uploads a video,
let's say Mr. Beast, for example, the reason why he's getting, you know, almost 100
million video views in the first week is because he has between 15 and 16 different
dubs that's included in that, and it's hitting a wide global audience. Not every dub
takes off immediately immediately in springing views, and YouTube's working on that.
However, in the markets that are, I'd say like seven to ten of the markets,
it's really refined. YouTube's process is so good that you can do it.
Now, I want to ask a question right now is, does anyone have multi -track audio on
their channel right now. So if you do, put me.
Okay.
Okay, so let me, Justin, let's go ahead and pull up anyone that said me.
And let's put them, let's just get them so we can have a conversation. Okay.
Diana, you are coming up. You got a few of these so that we can do multiple at
the same time. Okay. I'm going to grab multiple people looking for the me's.
you're coming up okay let's just let's just start there so matthew are you on yes
i'm here but josh yeah i'm here uh diana
don't know if we ever okay so um diana yes oh there we go okay great great great
okay so the first thing is this is a question that everyone has. How do I know if
I have it? So how did you find out that you actually had a multi -track?
We saw it. We'll start with Deanna first, then Matthew, then Josh. Go ahead. Deanna?
We watched a video explaining how do you look for it. We looked into the
transcription area and found the voice upload and realized, oh, okay, we got it.
Great. So all you got to do is go to the subtitles area. You click on that.
You'll be able You'll see if it shows up if it's only for subtitles, then you
don't have it. If it has an audio section that has a little pencil on it, then
you have it. What about you, Matthew? It was the same thing. I was poking around
in the subtitle section and noticed it just showed up. Okay, great. And Josh? Same.
Yeah, I just kind of YouTube did it. Okay. Was there anyone, and maybe you're not,
you guys are not included on this was there anyone that was notified by their
partner manager to say hey we got this new tool for you um if you did uh say yes
uh let's uh add nils up real quick i think nils had it okay
hello hey how we doing how we doing great man how are you doing good so did your
partner manager to basically say hey this this is an opportunity for you yeah in
fact he reached out uh
hear that raise your heads that you have the feature this is your main question now
what i want to do is have the conversation with yanna and and matthew josh and
nils and let's see if we can have them um you know answer it for you by our
conversations okay because it's really really important okay so nils i'll start with
you um since you you know we've worked quite quite closely together are you going
to do it or are you doing it currently? I've already translated every video over a
certain threshold into Spanish and Portuguese, and I'm trying to figure out now how
best to launch it. Okay, great. So you're now deciding, can, got every video,
do I start a new channel, or do I put it in my own library?
Is that correct? Correct, yes. Okay. Okay, so here's your options. you do a toe in
the water, and for those that don't know, Nill, you actually speak another language,
right? Portuguese, yeah. It's a Portuguese. So which language are we going to do?
Portuguese. Okay, sounds good. So even though you have Spanish, you're not going to
do Spanish, and you're not going to do anything else. You need to have a toe in
the water campaign, okay? It is not going to hurt you to go look at some good
performing videos and change this, or I'm sorry, add those translated dubs to it and
the meta information for it. These are the ones that are bringing traffic. It's not
going to hurt anything. Okay. And we're going to do it and we're going to see
what's going to happen in seven days. Okay. And you might say, well, is seven days
a long enough time to get us views? But what we're going to do is see what
happens. So you can go do a handful of videos up to 10 and do it.
And then that's your tool in the water to decide if you're going to do it or not.
Does that sound good? Yeah. And is this top performing videos currently? I would do
anything that has views right now. And if you can see, what we're looking for is
it going to increase the views on what you're doing by extending the reach. And
because of the activity and the popularity of it, the older the video is, the
better from my point of view and just not your new videos. I would look for those.
And then, too, some of your other videos that are just bringing a ton of views.
Okay? So that's the first test that we're doing. Okay. And you're going to do 10
videos on that, okay? In Portuguese. Okay. Now,
I want you to do another five videos that haven't seen the light of freaking day
on any views. Okay.
They're good videos. They perform with you in the past, but you're going to do it
on Portuguese.
So videos that have performed well in the past but aren't currently getting much in
terms of views? Real -time traffic, yeah. And you're going to just put on it. And
then lo and behold, what you're going to do is group those videos. You're going to
create two new groups. And one's going to be your 10 video group.
Five is the X Factor to really prove what you should do. Okay.
Does that make sense? Yeah. I'm excited to try it. Okay. So you can literally do
that today. Like I mean, and you're data nerd, so you're good to go on it. But
you can do that today. And then by the time that the seven -day test comes in,
we're going to be meeting again a week from today. And we're going to get that
result so everyone can see that. Is that okay? Yeah, I'm on it. I'll do it today.
Okay, great. Hey, Josh,
are you there?
Yes. Yeah, sorry, I just got muted. Okay, so where are you at your dubbing process?
I'm at the beginning stages. So, and I think for me specifically because I make
music, I'm a little bit not sure how best to proceed because,
you know, it's one thing if I'm just having a video that's just spoken, but if
it's sung, I'm not, I'm still kind of figuring how how best to work that out in
terms of the government. Yeah, I would say that the music side is not necessarily
because here's what I know. I lived some time in South America And these people
would seem perfect English, but they couldn't speak English. I've experienced that,
too. You know, like I spent a significant amount of time in Mexico, and the same
thing. Like, yeah, people will sing like, they sound like they may as well be
English speakers, but they just can't speak English. Yeah, but you actually do some
social stuff, and this is where I think it's interesting. So if you already have
that track and you might use Schwartz or something to connect with them, I would 1
million percent any time that you're talking, like anytime that you're talking, that
it is multi -track. And so the question's going to be, the question's going to be,
how do you do it? Because like right now, I think everything that you do, let me
go here.
I think everything that you do is all music, right? Do you do any commentary? I
really haven't built commentary. I mean, there's a few like of my old videos where
I did stuff with my wife and did like kind of like a podcast type stuff. But it's
been a long, like most of myself's music and I'm not really sure to what extent I
want to have discussion in there. You know, because I think. Yeah, I was probably
just if it was me, I'd do a different channel and it was just you as a
personality and this is your music side. but it's just like talking through it and
then you could do it that way and you can have multi -track on that for sure got
it um this is really important um do you have any other countries that are
listening to your music outside the u .s. South Africa okay um and Mexico a little
bit but like whatever reason I'm like really big in South Africa Okay. So yeah,
I would probably do Spanish, you know, South Africa,
there's a couple languages that they speak there, but I would probably try,
if you're going to do this, this would be, hey, it would only be for the setup of
videos. And then two, there's one thing that I probably want you to try out,
but you've got to be willing to do it. And let me, let me pull up your channel.
Justin, do you have this channel in front of you by chance? I do not. Let me see
why I can find. Josh, what's the channel name? Josh Ross J -Row.
So I'll put it in the chat.
Oops, sorry, it's auto -correct. Okay.
All right. Great.
Okay, we got it. Got it right here.
Okay.
Because of where you're at with things, what I would do as a test is make a
compilation video of your music videos or your music and then tee it a 30 second,
you know, message of why this is important or whatever, you know, and, and, and,
and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, like, have it be, like,
close to, uh, 20, 20 minutes, 30 minutes, but just do that little intro,
um, where you're just kind of setting, you know, uh, kind of setting the stage. And
then I would actually translate that, um, and, and see if that would do, if, if,
what that would do? So basically what you're saying, so a 20 to 30 minute video
that's like, would you do the whole video for each of these videos or just like a
little... Frequently, yeah. So basically have, so a 30 minute video that features
some of my favorite videos and maybe do like a 30 second to 30 second to one
minute intro that kind of explains them why I chose you. You're saying why you're
picking these in and what it means. And then the more that you could do it for
your musical that you want to create the better too, so.
Okay.
But that would be the test.
Yeah, that's a great idea. Okay, great.
That's what I do. You can do it in as many languages you want for that test. You
know, just make sure that Spanish is there, for sure.
I'm not sure that would be the language I'd want to translate too. So it sounds
good. Matthew, you are up. Are you in your process? I've translated three or four
videos already into a bunch of different languages that I'm interested in going
after, things like German, Hindi, Arabic, stuff like that. Have you uploaded them to
your multi -track editor? Yes, I have. Okay. And then how long ago was that? That
was about four days ago. Okay, great. So let me ask you two questions. The first
question would be, how seamless was the process in Didodum? Was it easy to
understand and do? Oh, yeah. It was incredibly easy. Yeah, yeah,
it was like the UI is pretty nice on that, right? So it's just very intuitive. And
the second thing is you did all your meta information, right? You just didn't upload
the file. You actually included your meta information to be translated as well? Yes,
yes, it had translated the titles and the meta.
Vance mode, create a group. Put those three videos in there. Great. Okay. Now, I
want you to go to analytics, hit real time, and I want to, I want you to sort by
the last 48 hours. And anything that's not new, you know,
it could be a little, a few years old or a few months old or whatever. I want
you to translate three more. Okay. Okay. And the same languages, you got to go
through the same process, but it can't, it just needs to be another control group,
okay? Okay. Okay. And then we'll see what happens from there. It takes a little bit
of time just because you add it doesn't mean it's going to fire out immediately.
We're seeing that it usually takes between five to 10 days where you can see some
pickup. But once it has the audience, once it's going from it, it can take off
from there. Okay. Awesome. Okay. All right, Diana. Hey.
Hey, how are we doing? How are you? Good. Where are you at in your process? So we
actually went live with our German channel probably about a week and a half ago.
And we dubbed, I think probably about 11 videos. We've uploaded, I think,
five of them. And then we got your email about the training. And so then we put
on the breaks. Okay, well, I mean, you start, you already made a decision to do a
German channel, though, right? So you're not using the multi -track editor, or the
multi -track option. You're just doing a separate channel, right? Correct. So because
the training that we had when we're in Mexico, we talked all about the, you know,
the separate channel. Exactly, exactly. And then could you just put the channel in
there so I can go quickly to your German channel real quick?
Okay,
I'm about to break down. And I'm not pulling that up, but it's right here probably.
Let's see here. Yep.
Okay, I'm going to just show everyone. Is Justin with you as well? Yes, yes, I am.
Okay. Hey, hey, how are you doing? Good. How are you? Good. You're good.
Okay.
Keep on going. Just keep on adding content. You have one video that has 155 views.
But let's let's just be consistent. How often are you going to release content on
this channel? We were going to do, so we uploaded the first three, the first day,
and then we were going to do three a week for, I think, like two months and then
go down to two a week. Okay, let's go ahead and do that. 100 % do that. That's a
great, It's a great thing. Now, the question is, is how are you picking which
videos to go first? What we did is we looked at the top 25 best performing over
the last 28 -day period. But we eliminated, and this is a question that I don't
know if you'd be able to answer. So some of them have sponsorships in them, and I
don't know if we should. Edit them out. Okay. Yeah, Yeah, you can edit it out and
then just put it up. That's fine. And then the other question I had, Darrell, was,
so what would be the pro of doing? I know we did a German channel already, but
had we not created the German channel, would you still say that started the other
channel? This is still a test for you guys. You're just doing the opposite of what
Nils is doing. Got it. Okay. Okay. The only difference is you, you're going to see
something. We're seeing momentum on this if we can just nail it right. And I think
your, I think your opportunity lies in, in seeing what,
because you said you already did it, you're going to do it. You need to be a
little bit more consistent. It's going to just take a little bit more time. What
we're wanting to do is about 28 days. We need to see what's in 28 days from the
data. Does that sound
Okay. What, what, uh, in analytics, um, on the main channel, is there any other
language that, uh, I'm sorry, any other location,
uh, that, that your audience is from besides the US and UK and Australia? Um,
I believe French, I believe is. Okay. I want you to do the same thing that I told
Nils on the main channel. So you're going to pick out, you can do the same videos
you're translating here, just do them in French and do it on the other one. And
we're going to do it on the other one. And we're,
this grow and can you get monetized? That is the question because even if it's all
in in German it's fine. And then the other one will be able to group it out and
we'll be able to see if it's getting that segmented market in French. Does that
sound good? That makes sense. So you please, please, please do do that like now
because you're like nine days behind of what you should see for the to actually
have comparison on on it. That'll be my full -time job right now. Very,
very good.
So, Jess, let's go ahead and just kind of put them back into it. Then we have
Sarah. How you doing, Sarah?
Sarah should be the last one of this. Okay. Can you hear me now? Hey, there you
are. How are you doing?
Hey, there you are. Hi. Are we getting some feedback? Here, I'll do it.
Can you hear me? Yeah, that's good.
Where are you at in the process? Okay, so we just barely got signed up with Ditto
Deb and we're just trying to decide if we do localized channels or if we do this
multi -language feature. And we have two channels that we're primarily looking at. One
is the kids channel that has 10 million plus subscribers and the other is more
tween content Fun Squad family that's aimed at. Yep. Yep. So those are the two.
Okay. So this is what we're going to do. So you have the multi -track capabilities
right now, right? Yes. So we're going to just do the same thing I told Mills to
do with you. Okay. On both On both channels. We don't need to do new content yet.
We just need to see what happens on it. Because we already know what a new channel
will do.
And the reason why I gave it very individually to, you know, to Justin, Indiana was
because they already took action on it. But I also had them do the other one
because what we need is to have, you know, we need to have some data back on it.
So do 10 channels or two, sorry, 10 videos that are in getting good real -time
views and then do five that were good performing videos you know,
over the course of time, but it's not getting many views right now. Now they're
dead. Okay. Okay. Now, the question is the language on it. I want you to do three
languages on it. Okay, the first one's Spanish Portuguese, so those two. And then I
need you to go into your data to get the other one. And it might be different per
channel. But there is a location that is bringing you views currently right now.
And I don't know if it's going to be off of any of your short form long form.
Make sure it's a long form traffic. And do five videos on that. If you do have
any short form traffic that's bringing a different country in, then do five
additional videos with that language. But make sure that's created in groups. Okay,
so I go into each individual video to see where the traffic's coming from or just
overall. So yeah, so you just go to the videos that you selected and just say,
okay, where's the traffic coming from? And then you'll know the countries, the
origin, and then you'll get the associated language with it. Okay, so my top 10
countries, I choose the language associated and do 10 videos on each of those
languages. Okay, so, so sorry. Let me just do it one more time. I want 10 of the
most active videos that you have. Got it. And you're going to pick this is what
you're going to do. You're going to do Spanish and you're going to do Portuguese
and you're going to find one other language based on just your channel audience of
what they're watching what that is. I would assume it's going to be India or
somewhere, which is the type of content you create. You just need to figure out
what that is, okay? That's that third language that you need to select. That's one
group. The other group would say, okay, we had some really good performing videos.
We're going to get five of them, and we're going to do the same languages that we
did here with those five of them, but it's just they're not getting any traffic.
You're going to create another group and put it from there. And then the third
group would be this. It's basically looking at, you know, other languages that
performed really well. And it's just more for short form. So if you have any short
form content, it might bring in another audience. I need you to just select some
random videos that would appeal to the videos that they actually watched in short
form and do five. If you didn't do any short form, you don't need to do that last
step. Okay. Perfect. Okay. Great. All right, Mills was responding to a question about
VPN. You do not need a VPN to upload this. This is not a thing. What you're doing
is uploading is English first, and then you're adding the audio tracks second. It's
always going to go off your primary language, so that's kind of the way it works.
And so you're not breaking terms of service with this. You are good to go. So,
okay. Okay.
Okay,
so who found value in the process of what we're doing here? Because I think a lot
of you are looking very specifically. It's like, okay, what is it right for me? And
if you fell into the category of what we had, it's really easy for you to take
one of those options. We had, hey, music, we don't have music. We gave them an
option to test it out to see if we can actually get more audience and more
viewership and so on and so forth by doing compilation, but also have a section to
introduce that's in a language. And then, and then two, we had the separate channel.
What would you need to do if we have, if we have the multi -track on, if we
already created a channel, we want to test it on our main channel, but we don't
want to do the whole library. We want to do it very very strategically, we do it
the same way, okay? Now, the question is, is if you don't have multi -track audio
on, it's not on your channel, well, then that means that there's only one option
for you. You either plead with YouTube to give it to you, which they will do it
whenever they want. Like, it took people years to even get shorts enabled for them.
So even though that they announced it, it's going to take quite a bit of time
before it rolls out to everyone because they're still working out bugs and stuff
like that. But realistically, it's going to break it down. Now, I want to show you
something for the people that want to start a new channel. We have, the thing that
I love about this group is you guys are action takers. Like, you guys just take
action and you're able to reap the rewards. So I want to be able to show you some
results here. Who would like to see results? raise your hand, say me, put it in
the comments. Let me see if I can find it here. All right. Here is some results
that was just texted to me. Justin, do you want to, do you want to tee this up a
little bit?
Yeah. Do you want me to actually pull on the career that's on right now that's
happening to them? Let's do that in a second, but do you want to just tee this up
real quick? Yeah. So what we got here is this is a, oh, no, no, no, no, no. Your
conversation, she didn't even know this is going on. Oh, that conversation. Yeah. So.
better that way. I'm pulling up in two seconds. There we go.
I asked her, hey, what happened with your Spanish channel? And I'm looking at the
data right now. And she goes, what do you mean exactly? It's live. At least last
time I checked on Wednesday. So the last 48 hours, you can see that almost no
views. Like she got no views right here. It's like. So then I sent her those
screenshots. It just blew up with browse and suggested, wow, I had no idea.
Not one video, but a cluster. And then we kept going on and talking about how some
other stuff. But yeah, I love it. So is she, is she here? Is she on? I saw her
on here in the beginning. Yes, she is. Okay. All right.
Hello. Can you hear me? I didn't know you speak perfect Spanish. It's like amazing.
I know. It's amazing. It sounds exactly like me. It's almost got me convinced.
Yeah, you're convinced that you have it. I love it. But so just tell everybody your
process. So when did you do this? How long did it take before you started your
channel? Did the do -to -dub? Just take us through the whole process from beginning
to end real quick.
Okay. So after we got back from Mexico, I gave it about a week to kind of like
let it ruminate and go, am I going to do this or not? And then I decided
absolutely, but I didn't know which language to go with. So I had a meeting with
Braden and Justin, and they both said, let's go Spanish for you right now. Okay.
Why did they say that, Justin? Why did you tell her Spanish? the reasons why
with the local Spanish. All I'm saying is this is,
I don't know if you got, wait, hold on. All I'm saying is this, people, if you
didn't hear what Justin just said, it's like what was being auto -translated, you
have that data. That is, that is like gold to understand what to do. Now, the
second thing would be is what's the number two language in Florida?
That's probably, yeah. Yeah, it is. It's amazing, isn't it? And that is in the U
.S. too. So it's in the U .S. too. So it's like there's a huge market here that
has this opportunity. And some of them actually speak great English. But guess what?
If they have a choice between English and Spanish is going to click Spanish every
time. You know, that's just the way it is. So. And I was hesitant at first because
I noticed that German and French were also, like, kind of up there, but I, we,
we took the plunge on the Spanish, and it looks like it's paying off. I didn't
know, though. Yeah, yeah. So just let me know.
Okay, so how long? So has it been about 20, 28 days -ish? Um,
actually, I think I launched my channel maybe less than two weeks ago, like,
officially, because, like, I signed up and it took me a minute to kind of translate
some of those and get them set off. And then what's your really schedule right now?
Uh, hey, what am I going to release next? That's a good question. So I've been
just doing the bucket system. And so my next one was going to be the home hacks
because I'd already done one of those. No. No. Okay. We have momentum.
You have three or four videos. I haven't checked the data yet because I'm in the
middle of filming like really deep dived in it so I don't I don't know exactly
well I all I'm just saying is this you have momentum it better be around the ones
that are taking off at least one or two of them okay so Ikea to make sure you
have to make sure those keywords are similar because people are going to like
they're going to engage with it it's going to be it's going to be crazy so you
got it you got it so I'll do um I it can do like a room makeover or ikea hack
i think the last one i did was an ikea hack so maybe a room makeover what do you
think about that yeah i think it's fine what i just say is like learn from what's
working right now and say what is the closest thing that's a great video for that
so okay you got it sweet well congrats on this this is super exciting um just
because this is a really easy thing to do it doesn't take a lot of time to do
this uh the The most difficult thing is, is, do you know what? Deciding what is
the strategy was the plan. That's what we have here. And then outside of that, it's
just using the jumpstart system. We were just, okay, what has momentum? Let's add
more fuel to the fire. So, okay, so let's go next.
We have some hands that are raised. I think Ted, let's get Ted on real quick. And
I don't know if Niels was on for the last time that he didn't unraise his hands.
So if Nils, if you want to chat on it, just say yes. If not, we'll have you undo
that. And then let's get Mr. Waterjet on.
Hey, hey, hey. So I just had my hand raised because earlier you said, raise your
hand. And I was like, okay. Do you have multi -track on yours right now?
We do not have multi -track. And we are about halfway through the process of getting
our first 15 videos translated into Spanish right now. Okay, that's great. That's
great. Here's, this is very specific to Ted. This is not specific to you for your
channel. How are you, how did you pick Spanish? Well, first of all, we talked to
Justin, but, and we took his advice, but it had to do with our American audience.
There's a lot of Spanish speakers here. That's right. As well as, so the RPMs are
going to be great. And then also just Spanish speaking, it's one of our highest
audience. Here's the thing. You're going to go and see which ones have the Zelda
communities, what languages have it, and who's the biggest. And two, if you can ever
get Nintendo's data of where they market um you'll get that now i do know that
that spanish is some of the highest so you already got that cover okay i just want
to throw in there remember that ted that's what we said where is the zelda
community at yep yep and the board you can get it if whatever initiatives nintendo
does is where you need to look and then you look for ancillary the people that are
out there okay sounds great okay All right, Mr.
Waterjet. Howdy. Do you have audio track on yours?
We haven't done that yet. We did a new channel. Okay. So we want to start doing
audio track. Do you have the option?
I haven't looked. You're going to probably want to look. Go to just subtitles.
There's like a thing that comes up where you're able to change subtitles and it
says audio on it, then you have it. If not, you will have it because I just
submitted your channel to get done. Oh, nice. So. Yeah, it says ad language,
but. Yeah, add language, but it has to be audio. There's directions on, Kathy just
put the directions on the chat for everybody. Okay.
Yeah, we can look at that. We had a question. I guess it's only been like 10 days
since we started our channel. We've uploaded five videos so far, and we've only
gotten like six views. We're just wondering, do we just let it keep burning? Like,
let it keep going or do it wrong? We're going to do it solid for 28 days, and
then we'll do it an analysis on it. But you need to have a good release cycle.
Are you releasing consistently? Yeah, twice a week. And then you are also putting in
the metadata. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. Yeah, Yes. Let's just see what happens.
Okay.
All righty. Justin. Yes, sir.
I think we covered the strategy. I want to make sure, I know that some of you
might say, what does it apply to me? If you don't have the feature available,
you can start a channel, and we're going to just test it. We're testing it. I
would probably only do one language at this time until you get the rhythm down and
understand what's going on. If you do have the option, you can still test both
versions of it. You get to choose what you do, and we gave you the option what to
do in this scenario. But for me, if you don't have it on the channel,
then, hey, it pretty much points you to go do it, create a channel. But what we
want to do is do it strategically. We want to look at, okay, what's going to bring
videos, how we're going to engage. You can go through the training where Alex goes
way in depth on this, too, of his strategy of just launching. He just launched
another one and it just got monetized. Was it four days or something? I say
something crazy about that.
Awesome. Daryl, I just got a really good question from Andrew Murdoch. Do you mind
if I read it too? Pull him up, pull James up, pull Joel up too. Okay.
James, you're up, then Joel, and then Andrew, I'm coming for you. We're going to
start with Andrew real quick.
Hey, Andrew. Hey, hey, Daryl. So got two questions if we got time. First one, is
this mainly a discovery play when you're telling people to go ahead and use their
main channel. If we see any indications of confusing the discoveries,
you know, different audience, different channel. And if we do see that negative
impact, then the plan B is to essentially, okay, it's not going to work on your
main channel. You've got to launch a second channel. Yeah.
Great, great question. So let me just answer it this way. This is more about
extending your reach of the discovery. And it's not going to just be, it's going to
switch language. But I'm here to tell you that English is not the most viewed
language in the world. It's not. Mr. Beast is not, like, all the other languages
are just as high as English is on the mystery piece now. That's the reason why
he's getting hundreds of millions of video views. So what you've got to decide is
what is the purpose of doing multitrack? Is it to extend your reach, to get more
fans, to get more engagement, that's the decision you have to make. And so if it's
more, oh, no, I'm doing it. And let me just give you a perfect example for one of
your clients because knowing who your clients are. There is lobbying and legislation
happening in Canada right now that any piece of content has to be in English and
French. That is happening right now. And so for that to go,
it's like, oh, we can hedge our bets. If we have it to enable us just at least
do French, then you're hitting that market as well. Right. Makes sense.
And you got time for one more? No, let me further answer the other one. It does
not impact two different audiences. YouTube's smart enough to know of where it's
coming from. It's the same piece of content. The X factor that YouTube looks for is
creating segments of interest, right? So it's not going to say, oh, because they're
watching this in Spanish, you know, let's show them this other piece of content.
That's not what they're going to do. It's just going to go off their browsing
history, right? And that is going to be an indicator. If they use that language,
that will be a hitmark of, hey, here's another one that's translated or whatever or
dubbed, and they'll be going from there. Awesome. And then, well, I guess to follow
up on that then for those of us who do not have access to this feature yet and
start a new channel yeah with there be i promise you they will blend it they
always merge it that's their tendency is if it's there they'll they'll do it they
already did it for mr beast they'll do it for everyone else it's just going to
take time uh because they actually want it on one channel and they want you they
want it as perfect for the viewer localized as possible so So they will be
switching out video files.
Fantastic. And for those people who are concerned about converting viewers into leads,
obviously multi -language content is only half the battle. Are you advising people,
you know, Google Translate or your tool or what are the best practices that you're
telling people as far as the fulfillment? Say that one more time. I just want to
make sure I'm listening to it properly. Say again? Yep. So for your funnel or the
lead magnet, all the fulfillment side of things, because we're capturing this traffic
in multiple languages. We can't send that traffic to a funnel in English, obviously,
right? So I mean... You'd have to translate it, yep. Yeah, so like my go -to is
Google Translate, but I'm curious if you're going to say something better. Do we
want to announce this yet? Oh.
We realize that's going to be an issue, and we're working on a solution that you
can do text to speech but also text translation for it as well. Right on.
I can't tell you when that is. It could be delayed. We have a huge list of
things, but... Yeah, that makes sense.
Maybe. We'll see. We'll see. Something epic is incoming as usual.
Thank you very much. Okay, but what's already, like I just want you to let you
know, is the mechanics of doing what you want to do is already there. We just have
other priorities that are just far higher because it's all about the video
opportunity right now. Right, right, right. Makes sense. Okay, great.
All right. James, you are up.
Hey, Gerald. Yeah, it looks like my answer got quite, my question got answered
because I don't have that ability to do the multiple.
way into your your background so okay you you got it and i i do want to say this
probably just maybe for the benefit of other people just to know how far your
technology is going there's a church that we're kind of secretly uh helping right
now in turkey because they're not allowed to openly worship over there and they
don't have a pastor that's capable of teaching them the bible and we've already
tested like one short small video.
get it in YouTube in that country. So it's amazing. It's great to see how this is
being used. It's such a powerful tool. I just wanted you to know that. That'd be
great. It'd be great.
Hey, Joel. How's it going, man? Hey, how are you doing? This is exciting. Yeah,
we got all of our videos up yesterday. We got, well, three, and then we have, we
didn't have a lot of evergreen, so we're a little concerned with that, just not
having a long backlog of stuff. We had basically seven videos we can run. Yeah, do
the seven videos, but I think I want you to try the backlog to see if anything
comes up. And even if it's not evergreen, I still want to test it out. Yeah, what
we're going to do is, at least for the first few weeks, we're going to do our
newest content a week later, and then we'll fill in the rep, the other one each
week, with the backlog that we have. The technology side of this is pretty easy for
us? Is there any reason I couldn't just go with the Spanish and Portuguese? We're
planning after this German channel. No, you're good. You're good on that. Okay, cool.
And then my wife was the one that did a lot of the double check on the
transcripts. She had a question about hyphenating and common language. Is that? Yeah,
yeah, that's great. Yeah. Um, so a lot of times and so a lot of the Diablo fan
base is German. And I, And I don't really know how much to allow the translation
to keep the vocabulary in German for something like Nightmare Dungeons instead of
turning it to Albtram. And so do what do you recommend there?
So I'm going to get an answer from Brayden. If you wouldn't mind coming up,
Brayden. Just come up to my screen and you can talk here this is really important
because um don't we have it if we if they're using a specific name like i know if
it chose that we put quotes around it and then it just kept it in english right
yeah that's the right way to do it but yeah we've already done that with like
clash of clans and other different title yeah we wanted to keep the native word the
way that it was Yeah, Ditto's not going to try to translate things like that.
So we'll, would you just reach out to to Braden on that?
And then we'll use users of the case study on this so that we have our process
for it. Sure, sure. Awesome. Yeah, thank you. And then have you noticed any
performance -wise?
Have you seen any performance -wise if there's one performs better than the other
allowing the translation we'd need to do the test just to do the test yeah we got
to do the test this is like early stage it's like i think everyone gets like super
excited about it but like we're still gathering data and and trying to understand so
okay but we'll have the best practice is guaranteed okay and the last thing is just
i don't know if there's anything i could do to speed up getting the multi -track
i'd love to test them against each other rather than just doing the separate
channels? Agreed. Agreed. Okay. Is there anything I can do to push on that with
you? Or should I reach out to YouTube or what can I do? Yeah, just push out to
YouTube. Okay. Yeah, too we can do. Awesome. Thanks, man. Cool. All right, everyone.
So this is one of many trainings. We just want to really hone in and really
decide, you know, how to do it, where to do it, so on and so forth. The big
thing for me, though, is really taking the right type of actions. And the first
action that you do is you have two options now. You can go create a channel. You
can do it. Well, I guess you have three options if you already have multi -track.
If you have multi -track, it's like, okay, you can do that and then also do a
test. You can just do a test small on that one, or you can do all three. We gave
you all three examples. What I want you to do is take action on this with one
language or multiple languages, but we need to be able to track what you're doing.
So you always want to group everything that you're doing so that we can learn from
it together. And then I can help give you very pointed answers to your questions to
give you more data and more information. So guys, thank you so much for jumping on.
You will get an email for this replay that you can go back through, but then also
you'll get an announcement for the next training next week. We'll see you on the
next one. Thanks, everybody.

PT8

Hey, everybody, welcome to another channel jumpstart training call for creators,
just like we've done in the past with high level and how to get brands. And then
we're going to go to how to handle your IP when it comes to AI. And today we've
got tax on how to help you as a creator be amazing and save as much money as
possible. And also not do anything that could get you in trouble with the IRS
because ain't nobody want to do with that. So first and foremost, everyone, don't
forget in the chat, change it from host and panelists to everyone so that if you're
in there chatting, everyone can see what you have going on. And then second up, I
want to introduce Danny Wright with Paisner Johnson. He is an amazing person,
colleague, friend with Paisner, like I said, with Pysner Johnson. And Danny, go
ahead. Why don't you introduce yourself to everybody here in the community? Yeah,
thanks, Justin. I will, I'll try to keep the energy as high as we possibly can
when we're talking about sales tax, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah, so I've been here with
Paisner Johnson. We call ourselves the sales tax people. I've been here almost a
decade. We've actually been around as a firm for 33 years now. We do all things
related to sales tax, and we exclusively focus on sales tax.
It really is its own world.
So it's oftentimes helpful to pull people out of kind of their typical thinking
right away of, you know, income tax and what you're used to as far as, of course,
you know, having a CPA, for example, prepare a tax return, whether it's a business
return or personal. Sales tax is a very different animal, you could say. So I'm,
Like Justin said, we go back quite a ways. We're able to connect several years ago,
and we happen to be in the same beautiful part of the country here in southwest
Utah. And, yeah, appreciate the opportunity, of course, to talk about sales tax and
help the community here just have a foundational understanding. And, you know,
That wasn't a great intro to me, but that's probably enough for now. I love it.
Awesome. It was solid. So everyone, one of the reasons why we decided to have Danny
on this call, well, I can't see it's one of, it's one of many reasons. So we have
a partner and we saw that we were spending a lot more in sales tax than what was
required following the rules of like things on Shopify and stuff like that. And it
And it was extremely high. And come to find out that we didn't need to be spending
that money that we were for a couple of years. And then I find out that other
creators were running into the same issues and wasting more money than what is
needed. And then there's just so much going on in the digital world of understanding
what you need to do and what you don't need to do. So heads up, before I kick
this over to Danny, he's got an amazing presentation for all of you, is let's hold
off on questions till the end. And then also, he was very kind enough to share a
link, his calendar link. So I've got that. I will be putting that in the chat. And
also, like always, all of these calls are recorded and they're posted on the tool
site under the creator tools. So you can go back and watch this if you need to,
or if you're jumping on right now that you're
Also, Danny, I'll be sharing his calendar link at the end of this so that if you
feel like you need some support and you need some help, he's the guy that's going
to be able to help you out. So Danny, on that one, take on over.
Perfect. Yeah, and I'll add to that that, you know, starting and ending this
presentation with that point highlighted that Justin just mentioned of,
You know, our approach to this is we'd love to get on a call with you talk in a
very consultative way specific to your company and what you're selling and not
selling. And like Justin said, making sure you're not spending time, energy, money on
anything that you don't need to specifically related to sales tax. So our goal is
to always help people understand at a high level what sales tax is all about so
you can keep yourself out of trouble and not lose money and also do that in a
pragmatic way you could say to where you're going to find a way to approach it
with your company that's not going to you know again cost you time energy and money
that you don't need to spend on this so I will share my screen here and get this
thing going to keep me on a on on subject you hear on on topic so we don't just
wander into the boring sales tax world without having very uh clear and concise
information for you guys all right all
right justin let me know if you are not seeing my screen here. I can see your
screen. Perfect. Okay.
Oh, Danny, you up muted first. Yeah, there we go. All right. So this,
you know, says it all as far as the foundation. You know, three questions that you
as a business owner can ask yourself to make sure that you're handling sales tax in
the best possible way. You know, it's really a matter of just handling these
foundational principles of sales tax. And, you know, there's plenty of details,
of course, in each of these topics, but we'll keep a high level enough to where
you guys get a good understanding. And then, you know, I hope to, of course, pull
some questions out of you guys So we can dive into those in the Q &A and then,
again, we'll highlight this multiple times. You'll have my calendar link and also a
QR code you can use to just go right to my calendar and schedule a call here in
the near future if you have other specific questions that you'd want to address with
your company. So, you know, these top three items here are the questions,
You know, nexus, taxability, and the collection of the sales tax. And then we'll
handle a couple other topics here that are very relevant as well. This first
question of where do I have nexus? Some of you have probably heard this word
already. It's just a fancy word that the state's used to define a link or
connection that you have to that state that allows them to then impose their sales
tax laws on you so a state cannot require you to collect tax on sales into their
state until you have nexus okay there are two key ways to establish nexus one would
be physical it's a physical presence that you might have in that state so justin's
a great example right He's based in Utah. If he has, you know, just an LLC.
state. So that's more what most people are familiar with, especially over the last,
you know, several decades. You'll see here in the slide there are a couple bullet
points to pay attention to. If you have employees for your company,
in addition to you or any, you know, stakeholders in the company, naturally those
employees would establish nexus in the state for you. That's more of an issue than
ever, of course, with remote work being more prevalent than ever. Also,
if you have an office in that state, you know, usually you'd have employees in
there, so those two usually go hand -in -hand. Also, contractors. Now,
this wouldn't just be contractors that are you're hiring to do, say, like accounting
work, or maybe they're working on a website for you. That's not the type of
contractor we're talking about here. These would be more contractors that are helping
you either fulfill your services with your clients. Or they might be contractors that
are actually doing sales for you, marketing work for you.
All of those things where you have someone that's helping you establish or maintain
a market in that state, that would be, you know, that would establish nexus for
you. The other one that's more common for e -commerce companies,
companies, you know, selling products all over the country, you might be using what's
called a 3PL, right, a third -party logistics provider. And you're storing inventory
that you own in that state. That would also establish nexus for you.
So plenty more details you can go into there, but that's pretty straightforward,
right? If you have employees or contractors located in a state, inventory located in
a state, that's going to establish nexus for you. The next one that's more relevant
than ever for most companies would be economic nexus. Right off the top, it's
important to understand And if you already have physical presence in a state,
economic nexus does not apply to you. And the reason for that is economic nexus is
strictly based on your revenue or the number of transactions that you have in a
state. So some of you might be familiar with the landmark wayfair case that went
through the Supreme Court back in 2018. The short story there is South Dakota passed
a law that said, you know, we're tired of having all these remote sellers sell into
our state. They're competing with our brick and mortar stores, but they don't have
to collect tax. Like, we want to take advantage of this revenue into our state and
collect sales tax. So they passed an economic nexus law. their law said that if you
are a remote seller and you sell during the course of a year either a hundred
thousand dollars or two hundred or more transactions into our state you now have
economic nexus which means you have nexus and you're now required by law to get
registered in our state and start collecting tax from that point forward. Wayfair
didn't like this law. They sued South Dakota. It went all the way to the U .S.
Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court sided with South Dakota. Again,
long story short, now every state that has a sales tax law or sales tax period,
they have now passed an economic nexus law. So again, keeping a high level here if
you already have physical nexus in a state you have nexus and these thresholds these
economic nexus thresholds do not apply to you so a simple way to approach this is
to first answer the question where do i have physical presence once you've done that
all the other states will be considered for economic nexus so in all those other
states you can you know at a high level, again, simply put,
And it's one of the key questions that always comes up or common questions that
comes up is once I hit that threshold, what do I have to do about the past
revenue in that state? Nothing is the answer to that. There's no retroactive part of
this law. It's simply once you hit the threshold, there will be some buffer in some
of these states. But The simple answer is once you hit the threshold, you get
registered moving forward and just need to be compliant moving forward.
So the next question is, it's a very important one, is the taxability. And I know
this is super important for a lot of you because of digital goods,
right? You're probably selling some sort of education product where it's packaged as
either a subscription or maybe they pay like an annual fee for access to on -demand
content, whatever it is, right? There is a key question around taxability and whether
or not what you're selling is taxable. So generally speaking, when you consider
taxability products, right, widgets are taxable,
right? They're actually subject to sales tax. And then generally speaking, services
are exempt from sales tax. That has changed a lot over the years and it will
continue to change, especially around digital goods and software as a service.
With the digital goods, I'll land on that one here for a minute, just because,
again, I know that's very relevant to you guys.
So if you're looking at, and I won't go to into detail with this, it'll make more
sense for some of you to go through this on a quick phone call to talk about
exactly what you're selling. But again, digital goods in general, like, even consider
way back when, you know, books are being sold as like audiobooks or audiobooks or
digital downloads. Generally speaking, if what you're selling would historically be
offered in a tangible format, like a book,
and now more like a PDF, like I said, or a digital audio book or even like
digital content, right, video content. If it was historically offered as a tangible
good and now it's digital in most cases not every case but in most cases that
digital offering would be taxed just like the tangible good so that that's a place
to approach this from of just understanding that if you're offering that content in
a format that historically would have been even like for videos right like on a VHS
it's likely that a state is going to consider that to be taxable.
Now, again,
we can talk through this for a long time, and of course, there's always going to
be nuance. And one of our favorite answers to any question related to sales tax is
it depends on the state. So the key takeaway from this for each of you is to
understand that it's important for you to address this for your specific company and
how you're offering what you're selling. Because sometimes just the way that you
offer the content, for example, if you, as part of like the on -demand content that
you're offering that's, you know, all videos, if you also offer instruction through
like PDF downloads, that can actually change the taxability of what you're selling.
So that takes us to the next point on the slide of research. It's important for
you to do even a minimal amount of research, which can be done even like I'm
saying through a consultation with me just to help you understand, you know,
how the state would apply tax or exemptions to what you're selling.
And again, I'll highlight that when I talk about a consultation with us, when Justin
mentioned it and we'll continue to mention it and put the information out there for
you, we're talking about a free consultation. So it's worth getting on a call and
addressing this for your particular offering, right? What you're selling.
So as you move through this, you know, as complex as it is, it will make it super
simple for you just going through, you you know, a basic consultation, sometimes even
a Google search, right? You could, you could understand some of the taxability as it
applies to you, just, you know, going through the internet like we do or chat GPT.
Don't ever fully trust that, right? Because as we know, there's lots of information
out there. And it's important to have a discussion. And again, understand exactly how
the state might treat your offering. Once you've done that,
I mentioned software here in particular because software has come a long way and
there are great tools out there that once you have an understanding of what you're
selling and the taxability and you combine that with knowing where you have nexus
and where you need to collect tax, there are great software tools that will automate
all of the collection for you. for you. And we've all experienced that a bunch,
right? You go to someone's website to buy something and you put in your address
information and before you go check out, right, it's going to automatically calculate
the tax that you will be paying the sales tax that you'll be paying on that
particular order. So this is that same concept here for whatever you're selling.
One of the keys to the software and having a good tool is making
of who's actually responsible to collect the tax. So if you're, I'm going to start
over on the right side here, actually, of marketplace facilitators. If you happen to
be selling anything through a marketplace like Amazon, Walmart, Etsy,
Wayfair, right, any, Shopify now has, you know, the shop app, right, where they have
a marketplace and you can go buy, you know, explore products and solutions from
multiple Shopify stores, they are operating as a marketplace too. So really in
conjunction or tangential to the economic nexus laws,
all of these states have also passed marketplace facilitator laws. And in short,
they've said, if you're a marketplace like Amazon, like Walmart, you are responsible
to collect the tax on behalf of all the sellers. So there's actually some benefit
selling through marketplaces more than ever because if you are making those sales
through them, you do not have to worry about the sales tax collection. Drop
shipping, moving to the next item here, is also very common with remote sellers.
It's very common with, perhaps with this community, enough to where I'll address it,
you know, go a little bit deep here. Drop shipping simply put is if I'm the seller
and I'm selling to my customers all over the country and then I have a supplier or
vendor that's somewhere else in the country, I can sell to these customers and I
don't manage any inventory. I don't hold any inventory. As I make sales, I would
then place a purchase order with my vendor and they will drop ship directly from
their warehouse to my customer okay so you might either be the retailer in this
example i mentioned you know i'm selling to the customers all over the country in
that case i'm the retailer to i'm selling to the end user right so i would be
responsible to collect the tax if I have nexus in those states. The vendor or
supplier that's fulfilling those orders, they only need to charge tax to me if they
have nexus in the state where it's being shipped. But also, they're not the
retailer, right? So the ideal scenario there is that the vendor or supplier would
actually just collect a resale certificate from me so they don't have to charge tax
to me so that is a whole other world in and of itself and that can get complex
just let's let's just make sure you guys understand that if you're in this scenario
in any of these points you know logistically right in the supply chain let's have a
conversation to make sure you understand whether you're the retailer or if you're the
vendor that has, you know, retailers selling and then placing orders with you and
your drop shipping to their customers, it's very important to understand your
responsibilities in any of those scenarios.
And that somewhat ties into this next one, right, of wholesale. The wholesale
distribution, right, being me is, I might be the importer of these products and
goods or I'm even manufacturing these goods and then I'm selling it through different
channels right different retailers whether it's brick and mortar or it's influencers
that are actually selling the product naturally you might have e -commerce companies
that are selling the product and again they would be ordering that product from me
as the importer or the manufacturer and I would charge them,
of course, a discounted wholesale rate. And, you know, that's the nature, of course,
of wholesale distribution. So then you have the retail, right? That's, this is
probably more common for most of you, I would think, most of this community, where
you're actually selling the products or services directly to the end user. So,
you know, there's plenty to dive into in each of these categories. But, you know,
again, at a high level, you have retail. That's when you're selling to the end
user.
to the retailers and then drop shippers uh you know you could either be the
retailer that has the wholesalers drop shipping to your customers or you're the
wholesaler that has retailers right selling your products and you're drop shipping to
their customers and then you have the marketplace facilitators right the amazons and
walmarts and home depot you know all those groups All right.
So we have those three questions, right? Who's selling the product to the end user?
What responsibility do they have? And then the other two questions around taxability
and around nexus. Okay. One of the key ways to understand your responsibilities and
all of this is to do a nexus and risk analysis. You're going to determine where
you have nexus and determine the taxability of what you're selling. So I won't dwell
too much on this one. Just understand there's really a simple way to understand
where you have nexus and, of course, understand the taxability of what you're
selling.
Here's another key component, right, of coming out of a nexus and risk analysis and
really getting a grasp or getting a handle on your sales tax responsibility, there
are approaches that you can take to dealing with past liability, right? So
specifically here, right, we're talking about, if you've gone through and you
understand where you have nexus, and then you understand that you do have some
taxable
you, if you haven't been dealing with this, you would have some past liability. Now,
we are never going to sound the alarm and just say, oh, we need to just go clean
this up everywhere. Like, you absolutely have to just go clean up the past
liability. That's where, you know, mitigating the past liability comes into play. And
this question right here of how do you want to manage it? The approach,
The best approach, in my opinion, in our opinion as a company, is to actually ask
that question to the business owner. Help you understand exactly what the states
would expect, what perfect compliance looks like, and then also talking about other
options that you have that would be practical or pragmatic for you as the business
owner. So it's always going to be that approach. It's a steady and deliberate
approach, again, to understand compliance and also understand, like Justin mentioned
right from the get -go. What are some ways that I can save money?
And also another key question here is, like, what's the materiality of my, you know,
past liability? It doesn't make sense to spend $1 ,000 to go back and clean up a
mess that's really only, say, a couple hundred dollars worth of tax liability right
so those are the types of questions that we'll address and that's going to be the
exact approach that we take with each business you know frankly put here most
companies when they look at their nexus and their past liability if it's not just
tons and tons of money and sometimes even if it is tons and tons the money, they
don't want to raise their hand to the state and say, here's all this past tax that
I didn't collect. I'm just now getting a handle on this, and most companies are
going to just deal with it moving forward. Again, we're always going to help you
understand what's the most correct way to do it, what the states would say is the
most correct way to do it. And one of the key components in all of this approach
is, again, like, the materiality of your past liability. And, I mean,
what's your risk tolerance, right? It's important to understand, too, like, what's
going to be happening and, you know, projected happenings you could say in the next
couple of years with your company. I mean, if you're getting ready to sell your
business, that buyers likely, or buyers that are looking at your business are going
to do some due diligence and past sales tax will come up. So that business that's
looking to sell in the next couple of years will probably take a different approach
with this than say the mom -and -pop shop or even a family -owned business that's big
and they just plan to keep it in the business for several years. Those two
businesses will often take a different approach to this. So yet another highlight of
the importance of getting on a call and understanding your situation and then taking
a steady and deliberate approach and a pragmatic approach for your company.
Wrapping up here and then we'll open it up for Q &A. I mentioned sales tax
software. These are just some of the key things that software can do for you. You
can calculate rates in real time for your customers. In some cases you actually
might be invoicing the customers directly rather than them going through like a
website checkout process. In any case, the software is built to be able to get real
-time rates for you. Rate tables, like a download of rate tables, or download of the
rates, I should say, throughout the US. Integrate with any platform that you're
selling on. Most of these platforms that a lot of you would be using already have
a built -in solution.
And, you know, sometimes if you're a wholesaler, you'd need to worry about
certificates. And that's where certificate management comes into play. And then you
have the returns. So once you go through all those details I just walk through with
you guys and you're now registered and compliant, right, are in good standing with
the state and you're collecting tax. It's one of the major burdens of sales taxes.
At that point, you're going to have to file returns. Some of these states as a
default will assign you a monthly filing frequency. So if you have nexus in even
like 10 states, you will likely have upwards of a hundred returns a year that need
to be filed so that's where you want to make sure you you're you're being efficient
with this and sometimes a software solution will be the best fit for you other
times that's a group like ours the sales tax people would be the best solution
because we're going to have more of a you know human touch to it where we're doing
the returns for you and it'll be automated, just like a software would, but you'll
also have our support if you need it. So again, walking through that, that's
something we can help you understand, you know, based on the size of your company,
your revenue,
and really the overall burden and the administrative burden of sales tax compliance,
considering all those factors, we can help you understand what will be the best fit
for you to manage the ongoing compliance.
Here's the QR code I mentioned to book a call.
Also mentioned was, of course, the link, right? This is just a calendar link. So
we'll provide that in the chat. And just to mention, it'll be in all the resources.
And yeah, it's My calendar is available to you guys, and I will caveat that with
saying that I'm pretty booked out for the next week because I'm going to be
traveling to some events and client and partner visits, so it's pretty booked out.
But yeah, find a time. Also, feel free to email or call me at any time with
questions that you have. And that's good for now. I think we jump into some Q &A,
Justin. Yeah, that was awesome. Thank you. I know for a lot of people, it's like
tax doesn't sound sexy and exciting, like some things, but it's important.
And I saw Neil over in the UK, yes, the U .S. tax system is extremely complicated.
So go ahead. Everybody first, if you got a question, raise your hand. I'll go
through. I'll unmute you. And you can actually have that conversation with Danny and
ask those questions. And then if you're unable to unmute and you throw it in the
chat, we'll try to get to all the questions. We do have that hard stop at 11 or
if we end beforehand, we end beforehand. So awesome. And then let me make sure,
there we go. Okay, so we got Papa Joel. You're up first, then Ryan, and then Matt.
So Papa Joel, go ahead. Hey, can you hear me now? Yep,
yep. Okay.
I'm trying to understand what nexus means for me. So I'm in Pennsylvania,
and it says there's a $10 ,000 reporting limit.
Do I have to pay sales tax only when I reach $10 ,000 of sales or because my
whole business and distribution is located here, I have to pay sales tax, period, no
matter how much money I make. Yeah, great question. I will address that first by
saying, I think what you're probably talking about is the notice and reporting limit
and kind of that minimum. That is mostly irrelevant,
just so you know, more than ever. That was something that was like pre -wayfair and
economic nexus laws that was set up to try to capture some revenue and reporting
responsibilities from remote companies so with that said i don't know if that's
exactly what you're talking about but i think that's what you're referring to and
then being very direct and responsive to your question if you have a physical
presence in a state you have nexus period and there is no threshold that applies.
that's showing state by state, but I have this as a recent, in fact, Justin, I
have a spreadsheet that is very simple that I'll provide to you that you can put
in the community resources as well. It will show the threshold state by state. Now,
again, being responsive to you, Papa Joel, which awesome name, by the way,
it, each state, most of the states do have a hundred thousand dollar transaction or
sorry hundred thousand dollar threshold however many of them have a hundred thousand
dollars or two hundred transactions so in that case right if you're selling it you
know if your average order is a hundred dollars you're going to hit the transaction
threshold long before you hit one hundred thousand dollars so in that case, if the
state does in fact have that or 200 transactions, you will hit the transaction
threshold first. And technically, once you hit 200 transactions, you would have nexus.
Okay. Good. I have really specific questions, but I'll reach out to you on Calendley
then. Perfect. Yeah, that sounds great. Awesome. I will add one other thing to that.
There are some states like Texas, California, and New York that have a larger
threshold. Their threshold is $500 ,000 per year.
There we go. Ryan, you are up. Can you hear me? Yes.
All right, cool. So I'm not sure if this is going to pick it back off of Popper
Choles on questions. So I have an LLC in Utah. I do all digital service and
digital goods.
And with that, like, and I use PayPal for a merchant processor. So I thought that,
because I know PayPal takes their own fees, but do I have to, and I live in
California. I live in California. My entity is in Utah and everything I do is
digital services. So would that mean that my nexus is in Utah,
right?
Utah and California, and then like we were just talking about economic nexus, if
your revenue or transaction count goes over the threshold in any other states,
you would also have nexus there. Wow, okay. Now, Combine that with the question of
taxability, right? If what you're selling happens to be exempt in any of these
states,
that begs the question of, you know, do I even need to register in that state and
worry about tax, you know, liability, the whole responsibility to collect the tax,
report it to the state. If you're not, let's put it this way if you're not
checking both of those boxes meaning the nexus box of having nexus in that state
and the taxability box of what you're selling is taxable if you're not checking both
of those boxes most companies will not worry about dealing with you know tax in
that state for example you have nexus in california if what you're selling is
completely exempt from tax, you know, sales tax specifically, a lot of companies like
yours won't even deal with the sales tax in their home state. You know, I don't
recommend it necessarily. But even if you are dealing with it, it's going to be
simple for you because you'll just file a zero dollar sales tax return. Right.
So that's where people ask themselves the question of like, do I even want to deal
with filing this return in the state? And, you know, you want to ask yourself,
what's the worst case scenario if I don't address this? Well, the worst case
scenario is always going to be that you get audited and the state looks at the
past and they dig in. And if you don't actually have any tax liability,
the worst they'll do is charge you like a flat fee for like a non -filing penalty.
That's not super common. It's not super common to get audited, first of all, right?
But it's even less common in an audit for them to charge you like a non -filing
penalty. But they could, right? And if you look at now,
like considering if what you're selling is taxable, taxable, now the situation's even
worse if you get audited, right? Because now you're in a situation where you could
have set up the tax collection, collected it from, you know, ready and willing
customers, right? We're all used to paying tax now. So if you need to be charging
the tax because you do have nexus and what you're selling is taxable, it is highly
recommended that you do so right as a company because again you won't get much
pushback if any from customers saying I don't want to pay tax or I'm going to go
shop somewhere else where they don't charge me tax because again more than ever
we're used to paying that tax so it's that's the ideal is that you collect the tax
from the customer that's willing to pay it to you because otherwise if you do get
stuck in an audit and you haven't been collecting the tax now it's coming right out
of your pocket right we call it the margin killer and sells tax
tax and of course reporting it to the state okay um last question then um to open
my mind to something else is there a list or somewhere we can find if the service
that we offer is taxable uh that yes and no uh where you might run into a
challenge is is there is some nuance to there might be some nuance to what you're
selling compared to what you might find if you just search online and find a list
that says, you know, here's the taxability of digital goods, right? Because there,
within the digital good category in a lot of states, you might have four or five,
six different tax categories that would be nuanced or, you know, detailed based on
some of the ways that you're actually offering the digital goods. One of the
examples I gave as I was going through the slides here of if you're selling digital
content, but through like your on -demand course or the subscription,
however it's being offered, you also offer like downloadable PDFs to your customers.
Just the fact that you offer those downloadable PDFs could in fact alter the
taxability of what you're selling. So that's just one example of why I don't
recommend just pulling down a list from somewhere that says, here's the taxability of
digital goods, state by state, and 100 % relying on that. It's worth having a
conversation or at least digging deeper to really understand what you're selling and
exactly how the states would treat that. You know, how they would categorize that is
a better way to put it. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Awesome. I saw a question
in the chat. I think it would be pretty quick. So Trevor asked, I missed the part
of the call. Did Danny address sales tax when we sell merch through sites like
Spreadshop or Printful? Are you familiar at those sites, Danny? Yeah, yeah. I'm very
familiar and I did address that at somewhat of a high level, but you're talking
about fulfillment on demand, right, where you're selling and printful is,
they're fulfilling the orders and drop shipping to your customer. So this falls into
that drop ship category.
And the key is, or one of the keys here is, is to understand,
you know, what printful or spread shop requires for you to be able to even,
you even sell and fulfill orders through them. And then to understand what we've
talked about here more in depth and detail is what's your responsibility. So if
you're selling the customers, where do you have nexus is what you're selling taxable?
You need to understand if those two things are true in any state, then you do have
a responsibility to collect the tax when you're making sales, and then printful,
for example, they're going to fulfill, say, like a t -shirt order, right? And they're
going to drop ship it to your customer. They have Nexus everywhere.
So they, when they drop ship your order to, say, someone in Texas, they're going to
charge you tax in Texas based on that ship to address unless you can provide them
with a valid resale certificate that's valid specifically in Texas.
I can say as much as anyone on this call, if you're selling through fulfillment,
you know, print on demand solutions like that, it's worth a phone call to really
understand what you need to do to both be able to do business with these shops and
make sure you're in compliance with what they require to be their customer and not
have to pay tax out of your own pocket when you order, place those orders with
them, and to, of course, understand your own responsibilities.
So, thank you. Kate. Matt, you are up.
Hey, this is actually Cheryl, but I, this whole conversation has made me incredibly
grateful for my accountant who helped us get this set up.
And it is really quite a nuisance to have to, like, I was really grateful to hear
you say that the states, like, you know, if you haven't been paying and you realize
you've overgone a threshold that they, you know, are kind of forgiving because it's
very hard as a business owner to know how many units you're going to sell or how
much money you're going to make in a year and charge your customers taxes for it
until you know you actually have to do it. And I was grateful that we've been able
to do that, and it hasn't caused a problem moving forward. But my question is,
in some of the states that we pay sales tax to, my accountant says that we have
to actually get, like, so granular on the actual counties that our customers are
buying from. Is this something you're familiar with? Yeah, let me ask you, what
platform are you selling on or like, how are you invoicing your customers? We use
WooCommerce. Okay. Yeah, so the shorter answer is yes.
There are over 10 ,000 tax jurisdictions in the U .S. And what that means is you do
have in most states you have like a base rate for the state and then there would
be a county tax a city municipality right there's a bunch of different sales taxes
in some states that combine to be you know the combined sales tax rate that you're
supposed to charge so for example like in my city i pay 6 .75 % sales tax.
That's a combined rate. So anybody selling to me needs to charge that rate.
What you don't have to do is report all the different tax rates to all the
different jurisdictions. For the most part, you collect the combined rate and then
you report all of it to the state and the state administers all those separate
taxes to the different jurisdictions. So, again, the short answer is,
you do need to pay attention to collecting the correct rates that do,
of course, like I said, have a combined rate. It's an aggregate, right, of these
different jurisdictions.
With the exception of Colorado, Alabama, and Louisiana, you don't ever have to worry
about reporting to any of these local jurisdictions so within i'll add to that
within woo commerce uh you do have options to set it up to where you're collecting
the correct rate based on your customer's exact ship to address okay thank you very
much you're welcome if you have questions about how that's set up especially if you
have nexus in like several states even if you even if it's just one state i i
recommend we jump on a quick call just to review like your woo commerce settings
and how it's being collected in these states and i'll be able to help you
understand if there's something a better solution that you could be using that's
going to be more accurate all right thank you you're welcome Hey,
I'm scrolling through. I think that is all the questions that we've got for today.
Last minute, if you got to throw it in the chat or raise your hand. But Danny,
thank you so much. Like we saw from the people that were jumping on asking
questions, is super valuable. And again, if you need to go back and review this
call, it's going to be posted later today on channel Jumpstart and definitely want
to get them at VidSummit as well so that you can meet with them in person and
talk with Danny and make sure you guys are getting the support you need so that if
anything happens, you don't get hit by a massive liability when it comes to the
content that you're creating, the products that you're selling and that it just takes
the wind out of your sales. So Danny, anything else you'd like to share before we
wrap this up? Just again, express some appreciation, you know, for connecting with
you, Justin, and the community and this opportunity really is wonderful for me and
for our group. This is exactly what we like to do to help people understand, you
know, the sales tax responsibilities and then understand that it is complex,
but also having the just foundational understanding brings a lot of peace of mind.
And especially once you understand more and more specifics to your company,
the key is to have that peace of mind that it's being handled correctly. And then
you guys can focus on your businesses, on your content, on whatever you're offering,
all the value that you bring. And ultimately, you can focus on whatever success
means for your company right because sales tax is not good sales tax sucks right
literally it can suck time and energy and money from your company that is worthless
right so understanding that it's important to pay attention to it and then having
that peace of mind that you have a handle on it doesn't need to be like this big
scary thing and once you do have that handle on it again you can then focus on
you know building your company and your brand and doing what you do best. So thank
you. And one last quick question came through from Joy. Are you familiar with the
fourth wall platform?
I don't think I've heard of that one, actually. Have you, Justin? Do you know what
that is? I have not. Okay. Sorry.
If someone wants to enlighten me via email or jump on a call, Joy, I'd love to
jump on even a quick call with you and walk through fourth wall. You can help me
understand what that is. And I'm sure I'll have some sales tax answers related to
that.
Awesome. Well, everyone, again, thank you so much. And we'll see you all on the
next call. Have a good one. Bye.

